.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:37+02:00  
.TH "NOTIFY" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
NOTIFY \N'45' generate a notification   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBNOTIFY\fR \fIisim\fR
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
The \fBNOTIFY\fR command sends a notification event to each    client application that has previously executed    \fBLISTEN \fR\fIisim\fR    for the specified notification name in the current database.   

\fBNOTIFY\fR provides a simple form of signal or    interprocess communication mechanism for a collection of processes    accessing the same PostgreSQL database.    Higher\N'45'level mechanisms can be built by using tables in the database to    pass additional data (beyond a mere notification name) from notifier to    listener(s).   

The information passed to the client for a notification event includes the notification    name and the notifying session\N'39's server process PID.  It is up to the    database designer to define the notification names that will be used in a given    database and what each one means.   

Commonly, the notification name is the same as the name of some table in    the database, and the notify event essentially means, "I changed this table,    take a look at it to see what\N'39's new".  But no such association is enforced by    the \fBNOTIFY\fR and \fBLISTEN\fR commands.  For    example, a database designer could use several different notification names    to signal different sorts of changes to a single table.   

When \fBNOTIFY\fR is used to signal the occurrence of changes    to a particular table, a useful programming technique is to put the    \fBNOTIFY\fR in a rule that is triggered by table updates.    In this way, notification happens automatically when the table is changed,    and the application programmer can\N'39't accidentally forget to do it.   

\fBNOTIFY\fR interacts with SQL transactions in some important    ways.  Firstly, if a \fBNOTIFY\fR is executed inside a    transaction, the notify events are not delivered until and unless the    transaction is committed.  This is appropriate, since if the transaction    is aborted, all the commands within it have had no    effect, including \fBNOTIFY\fR.  But it can be disconcerting if one    is expecting the notification events to be delivered immediately.  Secondly, if    a listening session receives a notification signal while it is within a transaction,    the notification event will not be delivered to its connected client until just    after the transaction is completed (either committed or aborted).  Again, the    reasoning is that if a notification were delivered within a transaction that was    later aborted, one would want the notification to be undone somehow \N'45' but    the server cannot "take back" a notification once it has sent it to the client.    So notification events are only delivered between transactions.  The upshot of this    is that applications using \fBNOTIFY\fR for real\N'45'time signaling    should try to keep their transactions short.   

\fBNOTIFY\fR behaves like Unix signals in one important    respect: if the same notification name is signaled multiple times in quick    succession, recipients may get only one notification event for several executions    of \fBNOTIFY\fR.  So it is a bad idea to depend on the number    of notifications received.  Instead, use \fBNOTIFY\fR to wake up    applications that need to pay attention to something, and use a database    object (such as a sequence) to keep track of what happened or how many times    it happened.   

It is common for a client that executes \fBNOTIFY\fR    to be listening on the same notification name itself.  In that case    it will get back a notification event, just like all the other    listening sessions.  Depending on the application logic, this could    result in useless work, for example, reading a database table to    find the same updates that that session just wrote out.  It is    possible to avoid such extra work by noticing whether the notifying    session\N'39's server process PID (supplied in the    notification event message) is the same as one\N'39's own session\N'39's    PID (available from \fBlibpq\fR).  When they    are the same, the notification event is one\N'39's own work bouncing    back, and can be ignored.  (Despite what was said in the preceding    paragraph, this is a safe technique.    PostgreSQL keeps self\N'45'notifications    separate from notifications arriving from other sessions, so you    cannot miss an outside notification by ignoring your own    notifications.)   

.SH PARAMETRELER   
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fIisim\fR
Name of the notification to be signaled (any identifier).     

.PP  
.SH ÖRNEKLER
Configure and execute a listen/notify sequence from    \fBpsql\fR:   


.RS 4
.nf
LISTEN virtual;
NOTIFY virtual;
Asynchronous notification "virtual" received from server process
with PID 8448.
.fi
.RE   

.SH UYUMLULUK
SQL standardında \fBNOTIFY\fR diye bir deyim yoktur.   

.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER
\fBLISTEN\fR [listen(7)], \fBUNLISTEN\fR [unlisten(7)].   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
   
