.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:37+02:00  
.TH "RELEASE SAVEPOINT" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
RELEASE SAVEPOINT \N'45' destroy a previously defined savepoint   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBRELEASE\fR [ \fBSAVEPOINT\fR ] \fIisim\fR
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
\fBRELEASE SAVEPOINT\fR destroys a savepoint previously defined    in the current transaction.   

Destroying a savepoint makes it unavailable as a rollback point,    but it has no other user visible behavior.  It does not undo the    effects of commands executed after the savepoint was established.    (To do that, see \fBROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT\fR [rollback_to(7)].)  Destroying a savepoint when    it is no longer needed may allow the system to reclaim some resources    earlier than transaction end.   

\fBRELEASE SAVEPOINT\fR also destroys all savepoints that were    established after the named savepoint was established.   

.SH PARAMETRELER   
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fIisim\fR
The name of the savepoint to destroy.     

.PP  
.SH EK BİLGİ
Specifying a savepoint name that was not previously defined is an error.   

It is not possible to release a savepoint when the transaction is in    an aborted state.   

If multiple savepoints have the same name, only the one that was most    recently defined is released.   

.SH ÖRNEKLER
To establish and later destroy a savepoint:   


.RS 4
.nf
BEGIN;
\    INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (3);
\    SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
\    INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (4);
\    RELEASE SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
COMMIT;
.fi
.RE   

The above transaction will insert both 3 and 4.   

.SH UYUMLULUK
This command conforms to the SQL:2003 standard.  The standard    specifies that the key word SAVEPOINT is    mandatory, but PostgreSQL allows it to    be omitted.   

.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER
\fBBEGIN\fR [begin(7)], \fBCOMMIT\fR [commit(7)], \fBROLLBACK\fR [rollback(7)], \fBROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT\fR [rollback_to(7)], \fBSAVEPOINT\fR [savepoint(7)].   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
    
