.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:37+02:00  
.TH "RESET" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
RESET \N'45' restore the value of a run\N'45'time parameter to the default value   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBRESET\fR \fIisim\fR
\fBRESET ALL\fR
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
\fBRESET\fR restores run\N'45'time parameters to their    default values.  \fBRESET\fR is an alternative    spelling for   


.nf
\fBSET\fR \fIparametre\fR \fBTO DEFAULT\fR
.fi


Refer to \fBSET\fR [set(7)] for    details.   

The default value is defined as the value that the parameter would    have had, had no \fBSET\fR ever been issued for it in the    current session.  The actual source of this value might be a    compiled\N'45'in default, the configuration file, command\N'45'line options,    or per\N'45'database or per\N'45'user default settings.  See "Run\N'45'time Configuration"    (runtime\N'45'config.html) for details.   

See the \fBSET\fR reference page for details on the    transaction behavior of \fBRESET\fR.   

.SH PARAMETRELER   
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fIisim\fR
The name of a run\N'45'time parameter. See \fBSET\fR [set(7)] for a list.     

.TP 
\fBALL\fR
Resets all settable run\N'45'time parameters to default values.     

.PP  
.SH ÖRNEKLER
Set the \fIgeqo\fR configuration variable to its default value:   


.nf
RESET geqo;
.fi   

.SH UYUMLULUK
\fBRESET\fR bir PostgreSQL oluşumudur.   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
    
