.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:37+02:00  
.TH "SAVEPOINT" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
SAVEPOINT \N'45' define a new savepoint within the current transaction   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBSAVEPOINT\fR \fIisim\fR.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
\fBSAVEPOINT\fR establishes a new savepoint within    the current transaction.   

A savepoint is a special mark inside a transaction that allows all commands    that are executed after it was established to be rolled back, restoring    the transaction state to what it was at the time of the savepoint.   

.SH PARAMETRELER   
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fIisim\fR
The name to give to the new savepoint.     

.PP  
.SH EK BİLGİ
Use \fBROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT\fR [rollback_to_savepoint(7)] to rollback to a savepoint.  Use \fBRELEASE SAVEPOINT\fR [release_savepoint(7)] to destroy a savepoint, keeping    the effects of commands executed after it was established.   

Savepoints can only be established when inside a transaction block.    There can be multiple savepoints defined within a transaction.   

.SH ÖRNEKLER
To establish a savepoint and later undo the effects of all commands executed    after it was established:   


.RS 4
.nf
BEGIN;
\    INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (1);
\    SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
\    INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (2);
\    ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
\    INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (3);
COMMIT;
.fi
.RE   

The above transaction will insert the values 1 and 3, but not 2.   

To establish and later destroy a savepoint:   


.RS 4
.nf
BEGIN;
\    INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (3);
\    SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
\    INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (4);
\    RELEASE SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
COMMIT;
.fi
.RE   

The above transaction will insert both 3 and 4.   

.SH UYUMLULUK
SQL requires a savepoint to be destroyed automatically when another    savepoint with the same name is established.  In    PostgreSQL, the old savepoint is kept, though only the more    recent one will be used when rolling back or releasing.  (Releasing the    newer savepoint will cause the older one to again become accessible to    \fBROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT\fR and \fBRELEASE SAVEPOINT\fR.)    Otherwise, \fBSAVEPOINT\fR is fully SQL conforming.   

.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER
\fBBEGIN\fR [begin(7)], \fBCOMMIT\fR [commit(7)], \fBRELEASE SAVEPOINT\fR [release_savepoint(7)], \fBROLLBACK\fR [rollback(7)], \fBROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT\fR [rollback_to(7)].   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
    
