.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:37+02:00  
.TH "SELECT INTO" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
SELECT INTO \N'45' define a new table from the results of a query   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBSELECT\fR [ \fBALL\fR | \fBDISTINCT\fR [ \fBON\fR ( \fIifade\fR [, ...] ) ] ]
\    * | \fIifade\fR [ \fBAS\fR \fIçıktı_ismi\fR ] [, ...]
\    \fBINTO\fR [ \fBTEMPORARY\fR | \fBTEMP\fR ] [ \fBTABLE\fR ] \fIyeni_tablo\fR
\    [ \fBFROM\fR \fIfrom_öğesi\fR [, ...] ]
\    [ \fBWHERE\fR \fIkoşul\fR ]
\    [ \fBGROUP BY\fR \fIifade\fR [, ...] ]
\    [ \fBHAVING\fR \fIkoşul\fR [, ...] ]
\    [ { \fBUNION\fR | \fBINTERSECT\fR | \fBEXCEPT\fR } [ \fBALL\fR ] \fIselect\fR ]
\    [ \fBORDER BY\fR \fIifade\fR [ \fBASC\fR | \fBDESC\fR | \fBUSING\fR \fIişleç\fR ] [, ...] ]
\    [ \fBLIMIT\fR { \fImiktar\fR | \fBALL\fR } ]
\    [ \fBOFFSET\fR \fIbaşlangıç\fR ]
\    [ \fBFOR UPDATE\fR [ \fBOF\fR \fItablo_ismi\fR [, ...] ] ]
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
\fBSELECT INTO\fR creates a new table and fills it    with data computed by a query.  The data is not returned to the    client, as it is with a normal \fBSELECT\fR.  The new    table\N'39's columns have the names and data types associated with the    output columns of the \fBSELECT\fR.   

.SH PARAMETRELER   
.br
.ns
.TP 
TEMPORARY veya TEMP
If specified, the table is created as a temporary table.  Refer      to \fBCREATE TABLE\fR [create_table(7)] for details.    

.TP 
\fIyeni_tablo\fR
The name (optionally schema\N'45'qualified) of the table to be created.    

.PP   
All other parameters are described in detail under \fBSELECT\fR [select(7)].   

.SH EK BİLGİ
\fBCREATE TABLE AS\fR [create_table_as(7)] is functionally similar to    \fBSELECT INTO\fR.  \fBCREATE TABLE AS\fR    is the recommended syntax, since this form of \fBSELECT    INTO\fR is not available in \fBECPG\fR    or \fBPL/pgSQL\fR, because they interpret the    INTO clause differently. Furthermore,    \fBCREATE TABLE AS\fR offers a superset of the    functionality provided by \fBSELECT INTO\fR.   

Prior to PostgreSQL 8.0, the table created by    \fBSELECT INTO\fR always included OIDs.    As of PostgreSQL 8.0, the    inclusion of OIDs in the table created by \fBSELECT    INTO\fR is controlled by the default_with_oids    (runtime\N'45'config.html#GUC\N'45'DEFAULT\N'45'WITH\N'45'OIDS) configuration variable. This    variable currently defaults to true, but will likely default to    false in a future release of PostgreSQL.   

.SH ÖRNEKLER 
Create a new table films_recent consisting of only    recent entries from the table films:   


.RS 4
.nf
SELECT * INTO films_recent
\    FROM films WHERE date_prod >= \N'39'2002\N'45'01\N'45'01\N'39';
.fi
.RE   

.SH UYUMLULUK
The SQL standard uses \fBSELECT INTO\fR to    represent selecting values into scalar variables of a host program,    rather than creating a new table.  This indeed is the usage found    in \fBECPG\fR (see "ECPG \N'45' Embedded SQL in C" (ecpg.html)) and    \fBPL/pgSQL\fR (see "PL/pgSQL \N'45' SQL Procedural Language" (plpgsql.html)).    The PostgreSQL usage of \fBSELECT    INTO\fR to represent table creation is historical.  It is    best to use \fBCREATE TABLE AS\fR for this purpose in    new code.   

.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER
\fBCREATE TABLE AS\fR [create_table_as(7)]   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
    
