.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:38+02:00  
.TH "SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION \N'45' set the session user identifier and the current user identifier of the current session   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBSET\fR [ \fBSESSION\fR | \fBLOCAL\fR ] \fBSESSION AUTHORIZATION\fR \fIkullanıcı_ismi\fR
\fBSET\fR [ \fBSESSION\fR | \fBLOCAL\fR ] \fBSESSION AUTHORIZATION DEFAULT
RESET SESSION AUTHORIZATION\fR
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
This command sets the session user identifier and the current user    identifier of the current SQL\N'45'session context to be \fIkullanıcı_ismi\fR.  The user name may be    written as either an identifier or a string literal.  Using this    command, it is possible, for example, to temporarily become an    unprivileged user and later switch back to become a superuser.   

The session user identifier is initially set to be the (possibly    authenticated) user name provided by the client.  The current user    identifier is normally equal to the session user identifier, but    may change temporarily in the context of "setuid"    functions and similar mechanisms.  The current user identifier is    relevant for permission checking.   

The session user identifier may be changed only if the initial session    user (the ) had the    superuser privilege.  Otherwise, the command is accepted only if it    specifies the authenticated user name.   

The \fBSESSION\fR and \fBLOCAL\fR modifiers act the same    as for the regular \fBSET\fR [set(7)]    command.   

The \fBDEFAULT\fR and \fBRESET\fR forms reset the session    and current user identifiers to be the originally authenticated user    name.  These forms may be executed by any user.   

.SH ÖRNEKLER

.RS 4
.nf
SELECT SESSION_USER, CURRENT_USER;

session_user | current_user
\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'+\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'
peter        | peter

SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION \N'39'paul\N'39';

SELECT SESSION_USER, CURRENT_USER;

session_user | current_user
\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'+\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'
paul         | paul
.fi
.RE  

.SH UYUMLULUK
The SQL standard allows some other expressions to appear in place    of the literal \fIkullanıcı_ismi\fR which are not    important in practice.  PostgreSQL    allows identifier syntax ("username"), which SQL    does not.  SQL does not allow this command during a transaction;    PostgreSQL does not make this    restriction because there is no reason to.  The privileges    necessary to execute this command are left implementation\N'45'defined    by the standard.   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
    
