.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:38+02:00  
.TH "SET CONSTRAINTS" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
SET CONSTRAINTS \N'45' set constraint checking modes for the current transaction   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR { \fBALL\fR | \fIisim\fR [, ...] } { \fBDEFERRED\fR | \fBIMMEDIATE\fR }
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
\fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR sets the behavior of constraint    checking within the current transaction. \fBIMMEDIATE\fR    constraints are checked at the end of each    statement. \fBDEFERRED\fR constraints are not checked until    transaction commit.  Each constraint has its own    \fBIMMEDIATE\fR or \fBDEFERRED\fR mode.   

Upon creation, a constraint is given one of three    characteristics: \fBDEFERRABLE INITIALLY DEFERRED\fR,    \fBDEFERRABLE INITIALLY IMMEDIATE\fR, or    \fBNOT DEFERRABLE\fR. The third    class is always \fBIMMEDIATE\fR and is not affected by the    \fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR command.  The first two classes start    every transaction in the indicated mode, but their behavior can be changed    within a transaction by \fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR.   

\fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR with a list of constraint names changes    the mode of just those constraints (which must all be deferrable).  If    there are multiple constraints matching any given name, all are affected.    \fBSET CONSTRAINTS ALL\fR changes the mode of all deferrable    constraints.   

When \fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR changes the mode of a constraint    from \fBDEFERRED\fR    to \fBIMMEDIATE\fR, the new mode takes effect    retroactively: any outstanding data modifications that would have    been checked at the end of the transaction are instead checked during the    execution of the \fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR command.    If any such constraint is violated, the \fBSET CONSTRAINTS\fR    fails (and does not change the constraint mode).  Thus, \fBSET    CONSTRAINTS\fR can be used to force checking of constraints to    occur at a specific point in a transaction.   

Currently, only foreign key constraints are affected by this    setting. Check and unique constraints are always effectively    not deferrable.   

.SH EK BİLGİ
This command only alters the behavior of constraints within the    current transaction. Thus, if you execute this command outside of a    transaction block    (\fBBEGIN\fR/\fBCOMMIT\fR pair), it will    not appear to have any effect.   

.SH UYUMLULUK
This command complies with the behavior defined in the SQL    standard, except for the limitation that, in    PostgreSQL, it only applies to    foreign\N'45'key constraints.   

The SQL standard says that constraint names appearing in \fBSET    CONSTRAINTS\fR can be schema\N'45'qualified.  This is not yet    supported by PostgreSQL: the names must    be unqualified, and all constraints matching the command will be    affected no matter which schema they are in.   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
    
