.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:38+02:00  
.TH "SHOW" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
SHOW \N'45' show the value of a run\N'45'time parameter   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBSHOW\fR \fIisim\fR
\fBSHOW ALL\fR
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
\fBSHOW\fR will display the current setting of    run\N'45'time parameters. These variables can be set using the    \fBSET\fR statement, by editing the    postgresql.conf configuration file, through    the  environmental variable (when using    \fBlibpq\fR or a \fBlibpq\fR\N'45'based    application), or through command\N'45'line flags when starting the    \fBpostmaster\fR.  See runtime\N'45'config.html for details.   

.SH PARAMETRELER   
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fIisim\fR
The name of a run\N'45'time parameter.  Available parameters are       documented in runtime\N'45'config.html and on the \fBSET\fR [set(7)] reference page.  In       addition, there are a few parameters that can be shown but not       set:      

.RS 

.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBSERVER_VERSION\fR
Shows the server\N'39's version number.         

.TP 
\fBSERVER_ENCODING\fR
Shows the server\N'45'side character set encoding.  At present,           this parameter can be shown but not set, because the           encoding is determined at database creation time.         

.TP 
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR
Shows the database\N'39's locale setting for collation (text           ordering).  At present, this parameter can be shown but not           set, because the setting is determined at           \fBinitdb\fR time.         

.TP 
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR
Shows the database\N'39's locale setting for character           classification.  At present, this parameter can be shown but           not set, because the setting is determined at           \fBinitdb\fR time.         

.TP 
\fBIS_SUPERUSER\fR
True if the current session authorization identifier has           superuser privileges.         

.PP
.RE
.IP


.TP 
\fBALL\fR
Show the values of all configuration parameters.     

.PP  
.SH EK BİLGİ
The function current_setting produces    equivalent output. See http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.0/static/functions\N'45'admin.html.   

.SH ÖRNEKLER
Show the current setting of the parameter \fIDateStyle\fR:   


.RS 4
.nf
SHOW DateStyle;
DateStyle
\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'
ISO, MDY
(1 row)
.fi
.RE   

Show the current setting of the parameter \fIgeqo\fR:   


.RS 4
.nf
SHOW geqo;
geqo
\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'
on
(1 row)
.fi
.RE   

Show all settings:   


.RS 4
.nf
SHOW ALL;
\              name           |            setting
\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'+\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'\N'45'
add_missing_from             | on
archive_command              | unset
australian_timezones         | off
\    .
\    .
\    .
work_mem                     | 1024
zero_damaged_pages           | off
(140 rows)
.fi
.RE   

.SH UYUMLULUK
\fBSHOW\fR deyimi bir PostgreSQL oluşumudur.   

.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER
\fBSET\fR [set(7)], \fBRESET\fR [reset(7)].   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
    
