.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:38+02:00  
.TH "START TRANSACTION" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
START TRANSACTION \N'45' start a transaction block   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBSTART TRANSACTION\fR [ \fIhareket_kipi\fR [, ...] ]

where \fIhareket_kipi\fR is one of:

\    \fBISOLATION LEVEL\fR { \fBSERIALIZABLE\fR | \fBREPEATABLE READ\fR
\        | \fBREAD COMMITTED\fR | \fBREAD UNCOMMITTED\fR }
\    \fBREAD WRITE\fR | \fBREAD ONLY\fR
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
This command begins a new transaction block. If the isolation level or    read/write mode is specified, the new transaction has those    characteristics, as if \fBSET TRANSACTION\fR [set_transaction(7)] was executed. This is the same    as the \fBBEGIN\fR [begin(7)] command.   

.SH PARAMETRELER
Refer to \fBSET TRANSACTION\fR [set_transaction(7)] for information on the meaning    of the parameters to this statement.   

.SH UYUMLULUK
In the standard, it is not necessary to issue \fBSTART TRANSACTION\fR    to start a transaction block: any SQL command implicitly begins a block.    PostgreSQL\N'39's behavior can be seen as implicitly    issuing a \fBCOMMIT\fR after each command that does not    follow \fBSTART TRANSACTION\fR (or \fBBEGIN\fR),    and it is therefore often called "autocommit".    Other relational database systems may offer an autocommit feature    as a convenience.   

The SQL standard requires commas between successive \fIhareket_kipleri\fR, but for historical    reasons PostgreSQL allows the commas to be    omitted.   

See also the compatibility section of \fBSET TRANSACTION\fR [set_transaction(7)].   

.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER
\fBBEGIN\fR [begin(7)], \fBCOMMIT\fR [commit(7)], \fBROLLBACK\fR [rollback(7)], \fBSAVEPOINT\fR [savepoint(7)], \fBSET TRANSACTION\fR [set_transaction(7)].   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
   
