.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:38+02:00  
.TH "UNLISTEN" 7 "" "PostgreSQL" "SQL \N'45' Dil Deyimleri"
.nh   
.SH İSİM
UNLISTEN \N'45' stop listening for a notification   
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBUNLISTEN\fR { \fIisim\fR | * }
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA
\fBUNLISTEN\fR is used to remove an existing    registration for \fBNOTIFY\fR events.    \fBUNLISTEN\fR cancels any existing registration of    the current PostgreSQL session as a    listener on the notification \fIisim\fR.  The special wildcard    * cancels all listener registrations for the    current session.   

\fBNOTIFY\fR [notify(7)]    contains a more extensive    discussion of the use of \fBLISTEN\fR and    \fBNOTIFY\fR.   

.SH PARAMETRELER   
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fIisim\fR
Name of a notification (any identifier).     

.TP 
*
All current listen registrations for this session are cleared.     

.PP  
.SH EK BİLGİ
You may unlisten something you were not listening for; no warning or error    will appear.   

At the end of each session, \fBUNLISTEN *\fR is    automatically executed.   

.SH ÖRNEKLER
To make a registration:   


.RS 2
.nf
LISTEN virtual;
NOTIFY virtual;
Asynchronous notification "virtual" received from server process with
PID 8448.
.fi
.RE   

Once \fBUNLISTEN\fR has been executed, further \fBNOTIFY\fR    commands will be ignored:   


.RS 4
.nf
UNLISTEN virtual;
NOTIFY virtual;
\N'45'\N'45' no NOTIFY event is received
.fi
.RE   

.SH UYUMLULUK
SQL standardında \fBUNLISTEN\fR diye bir komut yoktur.   

.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER
\fBLISTEN\fR [listen(7)], \fBNOTIFY\fR [notify(7)]   

.SH ÇEVİREN
Nilgün Belma Bugüner <nilgun (at) belgeler·gen·tr>, Nisan 2005 
 
   
