.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:25+02:00  
.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990, 1993 
.\" The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. 
.\" 
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by 
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. 
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met: 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software 
.\" must display the following acknowledgement: 
.\" This product includes software developed by the University of 
.\" California, Berkeley and its contributors. 
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors 
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software 
.\" without specific prior written permission. 
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS \N'96'\N'96'AS IS\N'39'\N'39' AND 
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY 
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
.\" SUCH DAMAGE. 
.\" 
.\" @(#)cmp.1 8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93 
.\"   
.TH "cmp" 1 "6 Temmuz 1993" "BSD" "BSD Genel Komutları Kılavuzu"
.nh    
.SH İSİM
cmp \N'45' iki dosyayı karşılaştırır    
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBcmp\fR [\fB\N'45'l\fR | \fB\N'45's\fR]  \fIdosya1 dosya2\fR [\fIatla1\fR [\fIatla2\fR]]
.fi
       
.SH AÇIKLAMA     
\fBcmp\fR herhangi türdeki iki dosyayı karşılaştırır ve sonuçları standart çıktıya gönderir. Öntanımlı olarak, şayet dosyalar aynı ise, \fBcmp\fR sessiz kalır; şayet farklı ise, ilk farklılığın meydana geldiği satır ve bayt numaraları rapor edilir.     

Baytlar ve satırlar birden başlayarak numaralandırılır.     

Kullanılabilecek seçenekler şunlardır:     


.br
.ns
.TP 
\fB\N'45'l\fR
Her bir farklılık için bayt numaralarını (ondalık olarak) ve farklı bayt değerlerini (sekizlik olarak) basar.         

.TP 
\fB\N'45's\fR
Değişik dosyalar için hiçbir şey basmaz, sadece çıkış durumunu döndürür.         

.PP     

Seçime bağlı \fIatla1\fR ve \fIatla2\fR argümanları; \fIdosya1\fR ve \fIdosya2\fR\N'39'nin başlangıcından itibaren, anılan sıraya göre karşılaştırmanın başlayacağı, bayt konumlarıdır. Bayt konumu, öntanımlı olarak ondalık tabandadır, fakat "0x" eklenerek onaltılık veya "0" eklenerek sekizlik tabanda da belirtilebilir.     

\fBcmp\fR, aşağıdaki durum değerlerinden biri ile çıkar:     


.br
.ns
.TP 
0
dosyalar aynıdır.

.TP 
1
Dosyalar farklıdır; bu durum, bir dosyanın diğerinin ilk parçası ile aynı olduğu durumu da içerir. İkinci durumda, şayet \fB\N'45's\fR seçeneği belirtilmemişse, standart çıktıya kısa dosya içinde dosya sonuna ulaşıldığı bilgisi yazdırılır (herhangi bir farklılık bulunmadan önce).         

.TP 
>1
Bir hata meydana gelmiştir.

.PP     
   
.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER     
\fBdiff(1)\fR, \fBdiff3(1)\fR.     
   
.SH STANDARTLAR     
\fBcmp\fR aracının IEEE Std 1003.2 ("POSIX.2") ile uyumluluğu sağlanmaya çalışılmıştır.     
   
.SH ÇEVİREN     
Yalçın Kolukısa <yalcink01 (at) yahoo.com>, Kasım 2003
    
   
