.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'27T15:04:03+02:00   
.TH "ps" 1 "July 28, 2004" "procps 3.2.7" "User\N'39's Commands"
.nh
.PD 0    
.SH İSİM
ps \N'45' report a snapshot of the current processes    

.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBps\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi       

.SH DESCRIPTION     
\fBps\fR displays information about a selection of the active processes. If you want a repetitive update of the selection and the displayed information, use \fBtop(1)\fR instead.     

This version of \fBps\fR accepts several kinds of options:     
.br
.ns
.TP 4
1
UNIX options, which may be grouped and must be preceded by a dash.       
.TP 4
2
BSD options, which may be grouped and must not be used with a dash.       
.TP 4
3
GNU long options, which are preceded by two dashes.       

.PP     

Options of different types may be freely mixed, but conflicts can appear. There are some synonymous options, which are functionally identical, due to the many standards and \fBps\fR implementations that this \fBps\fR is compatible with.     

Note that "\fBps \N'45'aux\fR" is distinct from "\fBps aux\fR". The POSIX and UNIX standards require that "\fBps \N'45'aux\fR" print all processes owned by a user named "x", as well as printing all processes that would be selected by the \fB\N'45'a\fR option. If the user named "x" does not exist, this \fBps\fR may interpret the command as "\fBps aux\fR" instead and print a warning. This behavior is intended to aid in transitioning old scripts and habits. It is fragile, subject to change, and thus should not be relied upon.     

By default, \fBps\fR selects all processes with the same effective user ID (euid=EUID) as the current user and associated with the same terminal as the invoker. It displays the process ID (pid=PID), the terminal associated with the process (tname=TTY), the cumulated CPU time in [dd\N'45']hh:mm:ss format (time=TIME), and the executable name (ucmd=CMD). Output is unsorted by default.     

The use of BSD\N'45'style options will add process state (stat=STAT) to the default display and show the command args (args=COMMAND) instead of the executable name. You can override this with the PS_FORMAT environment variable. The use of BSD\N'45'style options will also change the process selection to include processes on other terminals (TTYs) that are owned by you; alternately, this may be described as setting the selection to be the set of all processes filtered to exclude processes owned by other users or not on a terminal. These effects are not considered when options are described as being "identical" below, so \fB\N'45'M\fR will be considered identical to \fBZ\fR and so on.     

Except as described below, process selection options are additive. The default selection is discarded, and then the selected processes are added to the set of processes to be displayed. A process will thus be shown if it meets any of the given selection criteria.     
      

.SH EXAMPLES     
To see every process on the system using standard syntax: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'e\fR
\fBps \N'45'ef\fR
\fBps \N'45'eF\fR
\fBps \N'45'ely\fR
.fi
.RE

To see every process on the system using BSD syntax: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps ax\fR
\fBps axu\fR
.fi
.RE

To print a process tree: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'ejH\fR
\fBps axjf\fR
.fi
.RE

To get info about threads: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'eLf\fR
\fBps axms\fR
.fi
.RE

To get security info: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'eo euser,ruser,suser,fuser,f,comm,label\fR
\fBps axZ\fR
\fBps \N'45'eM\fR
.fi
.RE

To see every process running as root (real & effective ID) in user format: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'U root \N'45'u root u\fR
.fi
.RE

To see every process with a user\N'45'defined format: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'eo pid,tid,class,rtprio,ni,pri,psr,pcpu,stat,wchan:14,comm\fR
\fBps axo stat,euid,ruid,tty,tpgid,sess,pgrp,ppid,pid,pcpu,comm\fR
\fBps \N'45'eopid,tt,user,fname,tmout,f,wchan\fR
.fi
.RE

Print only the process IDs of syslogd: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'C syslogd \N'45'o pid=\fR
.fi
.RE

Print only the name of PID 42: 
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps \N'45'p 42 \N'45'o comm=\fR
.fi
.RE
      

.SH SIMPLE PROCESS SELECTION     
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'A\fR
Select all processes. Identical to \fB\N'45'e\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'N\fR
Select all processes except those that fulfill the specified conditions. (negates the selection) Identical to \fB\N'45'\N'45'deselect\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ T\fR
Select all processes associated with this terminal. Identical to the \fBt\fR option without any argument.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'a\fR
Select all processes except session leaders (see \fBgetsid(2)\fR) and processes not associated with a terminal.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ a\fR
Lift the BSD\N'45'style "only yourself" restriction, which is imposed upon the set of all processes when some BSD\N'45'style (without "\N'45'") options are used or when the \fBps\fR personality setting is BSD\N'45'like. The set of processes selected in this manner is in addition to the set of processes selected by other means. An alternate description is that this option causes \fBps\fR to list all processes with a terminal (tty), or to list all processes when used together with the \fBx\fR option.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ d\fR
Select all processes except session leaders.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'e\fR
Select all processes. Identical to \fB\N'45'A\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ g\fR
Really all, even session leaders. This flag is obsolete and may be discontinued in a future release. It is normally implied by the \fBa\fR flag, and is only useful when operating in the sunos4 personality.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ r\fR
Restrict the selection to only running processes.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ x\fR
Lift the BSD\N'45'style "must have a tty" restriction, which is imposed upon the set of all processes when some BSD\N'45'style (without "\N'45'") options are used or when the \fBps\fR personality setting is BSD\N'45'like. The set of processes selected in this manner is in addition to the set of processes selected by other means. An alternate description is that this option causes \fBps\fR to list all processes owned by you (same EUID as \fBps\fR), or to list all processes when used together with the a option.       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'deselect\fR
Select all processes except those that fulfill the specified conditions. (negates the selection) Identical to \fB\N'45'N\fR.       

.PP      

.SH PROCESS SELECTION BY LIST     
These options accept a single argument in the form of a blank\N'45'separated or comma\N'45'separated list. They can be used multiple times.
.br
For example: \fBps \N'45'p "1 2" \N'45'p 3,4\fR     

.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'C \fR\fIcmdlist\fR
Select by command name. This selects the processes whose executable name is given in \fIcmdlist\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'G \fR\fIgrplist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'Group \fR\fIgrplist\fR
Select by real group ID (RGID) or name. This selects the processes whose real group name or ID is in the \fIgrplist\fR list. The real group ID identifies the group of the user who created the process, see \fBgetgid(2)\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ U \fR\fIuserlist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'u \fR\fIuserlist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'user \fR\fIuserlist\fR
Select by effective user ID (EUID) or name. This selects the processes whose effective user name or ID is in \fIuserlist\fR. The effective user ID describes the user whose file access permissions are used by the process (see \fBgeteuid(2)\fR).       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'U \fR\fIuserlist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'User \fR\fIuserlist \fR
select by real user ID (RUID) or name. It selects the processes whose real user name or ID is in the \fIuserlist \fR list. The real user ID identifies the user who created the process, see \fBgetuid(2)\fR).       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'g \fR\fIgrplist\fR
Select by session OR by effective group name. Selection by session is specified by many standards, but selection by effective group is the logical behavior that several other operating systems use. This \fBps\fR will select by session when the list is completely numeric (as sessions are). Group ID numbers will work only when some group names are also specified. See the \fB\N'45's\fR and \fB\N'45'\N'45'group\fR options.       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'group \fR\fIgrplist\fR
Select by effective group ID (EGID) or name. This selects the processes whose effective group name or ID is in \fIgrplist\fR. The effective group ID describes the group whose file access permissions are used by the process (see \fBgeteuid(2)\fR). The \fB\N'45'g\fR option is often an alternative to \fB\N'45'\N'45'group\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ p \fR\fIpidlist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'p \fR\fIpidlist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'pid \fR\fIpidlist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fIpid\fR
Select by process ID. This selects the processes whose process ID numbers appear in \fIpidlist\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'ppid \fR\fIpidlist\fR
Select by parent process ID. This selects the processes with a parent process ID in \fIpidlist\fR. That is, it selects processes that are children of those listed in pidlist.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45's \fR\fIsesslist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'sid \fR\fIsesslist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\fR\fIsession\fR
Select by session ID. This selects the processes with a session ID specified in \fIsession\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ t \fR\fIttylist\fR
Select by tty. Nearly identical to \fB\N'45't\fR and \fB\N'45'\N'45'tty\fR, but can also be used with an empty ttylist to indicate the terminal associated with \fBps\fR. Using the \fBT\fR option is considered cleaner than using \fBT\fR with an empty \fIttylist\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45't \fR\fIttylist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'tty \fR\fIttylist\fR
Select by tty. This selects the processes associated with the terminals given in \fIttylist\fR. Terminals (ttys, or screens for text output) can be specified in several forms: /dev/ttyS1, ttyS1, S1. A plain "\N'45'" may be used to select processes not attached to any terminal.       

.PP      

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT CONTROL     
These options are used to choose the information displayed by \fBps\fR. The output may differ by personality.     

.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'F\fR
extra full format. See the \fB\N'45'f\fR option, which \fB\N'45'F\fR implies.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'O \fR\fIformat\fR
is like \fB\N'45'o\fR, but preloaded with some default columns. Identical to \fB\N'45'o pid,\fR\fIformat\fR\fB,state,tname,time,command\fR or \fB\N'45'o pid,\fR\fIformat\fR\fB,tname,time,cmd\fR, see \fB\N'45'o\fR below.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ O \fR\fIformat\fR
is preloaded \fBo\fR (overloaded). The BSD \fBO\fR option can act like \fB\N'45'O\fR (user\N'45'defined output format with some common fields predefined) or can be used to specify sort order. Heuristics are used to determine the behavior of this option. To ensure that the desired behavior is obtained (sorting or formatting), specify the option in some other way (e.g. with \fB\N'45'O\fR or \fB\N'45'\N'45'sort\fR). When used as a formatting option, it is identical to \fB\N'45'O\fR, with the BSD personality.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'M\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \ Z\fR
Add a column of security data. (for SE Linux)       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ X\fR
Register format.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'c\fR
Show different scheduler information for the \fB\N'45'l\fR option.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'f\fR
does full\N'45'format listing. This option can be combined with many other UNIX\N'45'style options to add additional columns. It also causes the command arguments to be printed. When used with \fB\N'45'L\fR, the NLWP (number of threads) and LWP (thread ID) columns will be added. See the \fBc\fR option, the format keyword \fBargs\fR, and the format keyword \fBcomm\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ j\fR
BSD job control format.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'j\fR
jobs format       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ l \fR
display BSD long format.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'l\fR
long format. The \fB\N'45'y\fR option is often useful with this.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ o \fR\fIformat\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'o \fR\fIformat\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'format \fR\fIformat\fR
specify user\N'45'defined format. format is a single argument in the form of a blank\N'45'separated or comma\N'45'separated list, which offers a way to specify individual output columns. The recognized keywords are described in the \fBSTANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS\fR section below. Headers may be renamed (\fBps \N'45'o pid,ruser=RealUser \N'45'o comm=Command\fR) as desired. If all column headers are empty (\fBps \N'45'o pid= \N'45'o comm=\fR) then the header line will not be output. Column width will increase as needed for wide headers; this may be used to widen up columns such as WCHAN (\fBps \N'45'o pid,wchan=WIDE\N'45'WCHAN\N'45'COLUMN \N'45'o comm\fR). Explicit width control (\fBps opid,wchan:42,cmd\fR) is offered too. The behavior of \fBps \N'45'o pid=X,comm=Y\fR varies with personality; output may be one column named "X,comm=Y" or two columns named "X" and "Y". Use multiple \fB\N'45'o\fR options when in doubt. Use the PS_FORMAT environment variable to specify a default as desired; DefSysV and DefBSD are macros that may be used to choose the default UNIX or BSD columns.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ s\fR
display signal format       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ u\fR
display user\N'45'oriented format       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ v\fR
display virtual memory format       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'y\fR
Do not show flags; show rss in place of addr. This option can only be used with \fB\N'45'l\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'context\fR
Display security context format. (for SE Linux)       

.PP       

.SH OUTPUT MODIFIERS     
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'H\fR
show process hierarchy (forest)       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ N \fR\fInamelist\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'n \fR\fInamelist\fR
set namelist file. The namelist file is needed for a proper WCHAN display, and must match the current Linux kernel exactly for correct output. Without this option, the default search path for the namelist is: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 4
.nf
$PS_SYSMAP
$PS_SYSTEM_MAP
/proc/*/wchan
/boot/System.map\N'45'\N'96'uname \N'45'r\N'96'
/boot/System.map
/lib/modules/\N'96'uname \N'45'r\N'96'/System.map
/usr/src/linux/System.map
/System.map
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ o \fR\fIorder\fR
Sorting order. (overloaded) The BSD \fBO\fR option can act like \fB\N'45'O\fR (user\N'45'defined output format with some common fields predefined) or can be used to specify sort order. Heuristics are used to determine the behavior of this option. To ensure that the desired behavior is obtained (sorting or formatting), specify the option in some other way (e.g. with \fB\N'45'O\fR or \fB\N'45'\N'45'sort\fR).       

For sorting, obsolete BSD O option syntax is \fBO\fR[+|\N'45']\fIk1\fR[,[+|\N'45']\fIk2\fR[,...]]. It orders the processes listing according to the multilevel sort specified by the sequence of one\N'45'letter short keys \fIk1, k2, ...\fR described in the \fBOBSOLETE SORT KEYS\fR section below. The "+" is currently optional, merely re\N'45'iterating the default direction on a key, but may help to distinguish an \fBO\fR sort from an \fBO\fR format. The "\N'45'" reverses direction only on the key it precedes.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ S\fR
Sum up some information, such as CPU usage, from dead child processes into their parent. This is useful for examining a system where a parent process repeatedly forks off short\N'45'lived children to do work.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ c\fR
Show the true command name. This is derived from the name of the executable file, rather than from the argv value. Command arguments and any modifications to them (see \fBsetproctitle(3)\fR) are thus not shown. This option effectively turns the \fBargs\fR format keyword into the \fBcomm\fR format keyword; it is useful with the \fB\N'45'f\fR format option and with the various BSD\N'45'style format options, which all normally display the command arguments. See the \fB\N'45'f\fR option, the format keyword \fBargs\fR, and the format keyword \fBcomm\fR.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ e\fR
Show the environment after the command.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ f\fR
ASCII\N'45'art process hierarchy (forest)       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ h\fR
No header. (or, one header per screen in the BSD personality) The \fBh\fR option is problematic. Standard BSD \fBps\fR uses this option to print a header on each page of output, but older Linux \fBps\fR uses this option to totally disable the header. This version of \fBps\fR follows the Linux usage of not printing the header unless the BSD personality has been selected, in which case it prints a header on each page of output. Regardless of the current personality, you can use the long options \fB\N'45'\N'45'headers\fR and \fB\N'45'\N'45'no\N'45'headers\fR to enable printing headers each page or disable headers entirely, respectively.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ k \fR\fIspec\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'sort \fR\fIspec\fR
specify sorting order. Sorting syntax is [+|\N'45']\fIkey\fR[,[+|\N'45']\fIkey\fR[,...]] Choose a multi\N'45'letter key from the \fBSTANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS\fR  section. The "+" is optional since default direction is increasing numerical or lexicographic order. Examples: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 4
.nf
\fBps jaxkuid,\N'45'ppid,+pid\fR
\fBps axk comm o comm,args\fR
\fBps kstart_time \N'45'ef\fR
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ n\fR
Numeric output for WCHAN and USER. (including all types of UID and GID)       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'w\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \ \fR
Wide output. Use this option twice for unlimited width.       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'cols \fR\fIn\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'columns \fR\fIn\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'width \fR\fIn\fR
set screen width       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'cumulative\fR
include some dead child process data (as a sum with the parent)       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'forest\fR
ASCII art process tree       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'headers\fR
repeat header lines, one per page of output       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'no\N'45'headers\fR
print no header line at all       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'lines \fR\fIn\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'rows \fR\fIn\fR
set screen height       

.PP   

.SH THREAD DISPLAY     
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \ H\fR
Show threads as if they were processes       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'L\fR
Show threads, possibly with LWP and NLWP columns       

.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'T\fR
Show threads, possibly with SPID column       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ m\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'm\fR
Show threads after processes       

.PP       

.SH OTHER INFORMATION     
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \ L\fR
List all format specifiers.       

.TP 4
\fB\ \ V\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\ \N'45'V\fR
.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'version\fR
Print the procps version.       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'help\fR
Print a help message.       

.TP 4
\fB\N'45'\N'45'info\fR
Print debugging info.       

.PP       

.SH NOTES     
This \fBps\fR works by reading the virtual files in /proc. This \fBps\fR does not need to be setuid kmem or have any privileges to run. Do not give this \fBps\fR any special permissions.     

This \fBps\fR needs access to namelist data for proper WCHAN display. For kernels prior to 2.6, the System.map file must be installed.     

CPU usage is currently expressed as the percentage of time spent running during the entire lifetime of a process. This is not ideal, and it does not conform to the standards that \fBps\fR otherwise conforms to. CPU usage is unlikely to add up to exactly 100%.     

The SIZE and RSS fields don\N'39't count some parts of a process including the page tables, kernel stack, struct thread_info, and struct task_struct. This is usually at least 20 KiB of memory that is always resident. SIZE is the virtual size of the process (code+data+stack).     

Processes marked <defunct> are dead processes (so\N'45'called "zombies") that remain because their parent has not destroyed them properly. These processes will be destroyed by \fBinit(8)\fR if the parent process exits.     
       

.SH PROCESS FLAGS     
The sum of these values is displayed in the "F" column, which is provided by the \fBflags\fR output specifier. 
.RS 4
.nf
1     forked but didn\N'39't exec
4     used super\N'45'user privileges
.fi
.RE
   

.SH PROCESS STATE CODES     
Here are the different values that the \fBs\fR, \fBstat\fR and \fBstate\fR output specifiers (header "STAT" or "S") will display to describe the state of a process. 
.RS 4
.nf
D     Uninterruptible sleep (usually IO)
R     Running or runnable (on run queue)
S     Interruptible sleep (waiting for an event to complete)
T     Stopped, either by a job control signal or because it is being traced.
W     paging (not valid since the 2.6.xx kernel)
X     dead (should never be seen)
Z     Defunct ("zombie") process, terminated but not reaped by its parent.
.fi
.RE

For BSD formats and when the  keyword is used, additional characters may be displayed: 
.RS 4
.nf
<    high\N'45'priority (not nice to other users)
N    low\N'45'priority (nice to other users)
L    has pages locked into memory (for real\N'45'time and custom IO)
s    is a session leader
l    is multi\N'45'threaded (using CLONE_THREAD, like NPTL pthreads do)
+    is in the foreground process group
.fi
.RE
   

.SH OBSOLETE SORT KEYS     
These keys are used by the BSD \fBO\fR option (when it is used for sorting). The GNU \fB\N'45'\N'45'sort\fR option doesn\N'39't use these keys, but the specifiers described below in the \fBSTANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS\fR  section. Note that the values used in sorting are the internal values \fBps\fR uses and not the "cooked" values used in some of the output format fields (e.g. sorting on tty will sort into device number, not according to the terminal name displayed). Pipe \fBps\fR output into the \fBsort(1)\fR command if you want to sort the cooked values. 

.RS 4
.nf
\fBKEY      LONG           DESCRIPTION\fR
c        cmd            simple name of executable
C        pcpu           cpu utilization
f        flags          flags as in long format F field
g        pgrp           process group ID
G        tpgid          controlling tty process group ID
j        cutime         cumulative user time
J        cstime         cumulative system time
k        utime          user time
m        min_flt        number of minor page faults
M        maj_flt        number of major page faults
n        cmin_flt       cumulative minor page faults
N        cmaj_flt       cumulative major page faults
o        session        session ID
p        pid            process ID
P        ppid           parent process ID
r        rss            resident set size
R        resident       resident pages
s        size           memory size in kilobytes
S        share          amount of shared pages
t        tty            the device number of the controlling tty
T        start_time     time process was started
U        uid            user ID number
u        user           user name
v        vsize          total VM size in kB
y        priority       kernel scheduling priority
.fi
.RE   

.SH AIX FORMAT DESCRIPTORS     
This \fBps\fR supports AIX format descriptors, which work somewhat like the formatting codes of \fBprintf(1)\fR and \fBprintf(3)\fR. For example, the normal default output can be produced with this: \fBps \N'45'eo "%p %y %x %c"\fR. The NORMAL codes are described in the next section. 

.RS 4
.nf
\fBCODE  NORMAL   HEADER\fR
%C    pcpu     %CPU
%G    group    GROUP
%P    ppid     PPID
%U    user     USER
%a    args     COMMAND
%c    comm     COMMAND
%g    rgroup   RGROUP
%n    nice     NI
%p    pid      PID
%r    pgid     PGID
%t    etime    ELAPSED
%u    ruser    RUSER
%x    time     TIME
%y    tty      TTY
%z    vsz      VSZ
.fi
.RE   

.SH STANDARD FORMAT SPECIFIERS          
Here are the different keywords that may be used to control the output format (e.g. with option \fB\N'45'o\fR) or to sort the selected processes with the GNU\N'45'style \fB\N'45'\N'45'sort\fR option.     

For example: \fBps \N'45'eo pid,user,args \N'45'\N'45'sort user\fR     

This version of \fBps\fR tries to recognize most of the keywords used in other implementations of \fBps\fR.     

The following user\N'45'defined format specifiers may contain spaces: \fBargs, cmd, comm, command, fname, ucmd, ucomm, lstart, bsdstart, start\fR.     

Some keywords may not be available for sorting.     

.br
.ns
.TP 
CODE, HEADER
DESCRIPTION

.TP 
\fB%cpu\fR, %CPU
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBpcpu\fR, %CPU
cpu utilization of the process in "##.#" format. Currently, it is the CPU time used divided by the time the process has been running (cputime/realtime ratio), expressed as a percentage. It will not add up to 100% unless you are lucky.       

.TP 
\fB%mem\fR, %MEM
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBpmem\fR, %MEM
ratio of the process\N'39's resident set size  to the physical memory on the machine, expressed as a percentage.       

.TP 
\fBargs\fR, COMMAND
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBcmd\fR, CMD
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBcommand\fR, COMMAND
command with all its arguments as a string. Modifications to the arguments may be shown. The output in this column may contain spaces. A process marked <defunct> is partly dead, waiting to be fully destroyed by its parent. Sometimes the process args will be unavailable; when this happens, \fBps\fR will instead print the executable name in brackets. See also the \fBcomm\fR format keyword, the \fB\N'45'f\fR option, and the  option. When specified last, this column will extend to the edge of the display. If \fBps\fR can not determine display width, as when output is redirected (piped) into a file or another command, the output width is undefined. (it may be 80, unlimited, determined by the TERM variable, and so on) The COLUMNS environment variable or \fB\N'45'\N'45'cols\fR option may be used to exactly determine the width in this case. The \fBw\fR or \fB\N'45'w\fR option may be also be used to adjust width.       

.TP 
\fBblocked\fR, BLOCKED
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBsigmask\fR, BLOCKED
mask of the blocked signals, see \fBsignal(7)\fR. According to the width of the field, a 32\N'45'bit or 64\N'45'bit mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias \fBsig_block\fR).       

.TP 
\fBbsdstart\fR, START
time the command started. If the process was started less than 24 hours ago, the output format is " HH:MM", else it is "mmm dd" (where mmm is the three letters of the month).       

.TP 
\fBbsdtime\fR, TIME
accumulated cpu time, user + system. The display format is usually "MMM:SS", but can be shifted to the right if the process used more than 999 minutes of cpu time.       

.TP 
\fBc\fR, C
processor utilization. Currently, this is the integer value of the percent usage over the lifetime of the process. (see \fB%cpu\fR).       

.TP 
\fBcaught\fR, CAUGHT
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBsigcatch\fR, CAUGHT
mask of the caught signals, see \fBsignal(7)\fR. According to the width of the field, a 32 or 64 bits mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias \fBsig_catch\fR).       

.TP 
\fBclass\fR, CLS
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBcls\fR, CLS
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBpolicy\fR, POL
scheduling class of the process. Field\N'39's possible values are: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 4
.nf
\N'45'   not reported
TS  SCHED_OTHER
FF  SCHED_FIFO
RR  SCHED_RR
?   unknown value
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP       

.TP 
\fBcomm\fR, COMMAND
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBucmd\fR, CMD
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBucomm\fR, COMMAND
command name (only the executable name). Modifications to the command name will not be shown. A process marked <defunct> is partly dead, waiting to be fully destroyed by its parent. The output in this column may contain spaces. See also the \fBargs\fR format keyword, the \fB\N'45'f\fR option, and the \fBc\fR option. When specified last, this column will extend to the edge of the display. If \fBps\fR can not determine display width, as when output is redirected (piped) into a file or another command, the output width is undefined. (it may be 80, unlimited, determined by the TERM variable, and so on) The COLUMNS environment variable or \fB\N'45'\N'45'cols\fR option may be used to exactly determine the width in this case. The \fBw\fR or \fB\N'45'w\fR option may be also be used to adjust width.       

.TP 
\fBcp\fR, CP
per\N'45'mill (tenths of a percent) CPU usage. (see \fB%cpu\fR).       

.TP 
\fBcputime\fR, TIME
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBtime\fR, TIME
cumulative CPU time, "[dd\N'45']hh:mm:ss" format.       

.TP 
\fBegid\fR, EGID
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBgid\fR, GID
effective group ID number of the process as a decimal integer.       

.TP 
\fBegroup\fR, EGROUP
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBgroup\fR, GROUP
effective group ID of the process. This will be the textual group ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.       

.TP 
\fBeip\fR, EIP
instruction pointer.       

.TP 
\fBesp\fR, ESP
stack pointer.       

.TP 
\fBetime\fR, ELAPSED
elapsed time since the process was started, in the form [[dd\N'45']hh:]mm:ss.       

.TP 
\fBeuid\fR, EUID
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBuid\fR, UID
effective user ID.       

.TP 
\fBeuser\fR, EUSER
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBuname\fR, USER
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBuser\fR, USER
effective user name. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise. The \fBn\fR option can be used to force the decimal representation.       

.TP 
\fBf\fR, F
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBflag\fR, F
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBflags\fR, F
flags associated with the process, see the \fBPROCESS FLAGS\fR section.       

.TP 
\fBfgid\fR, FGID
filesystem access group ID. (alias \fBfsgid\fR).       

.TP 
\fBfgroup\fR, FGROUP
filesystem access group ID. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise. (alias \fBfsgroup\fR).       

.TP 
\fBfname\fR, COMMAND
first 8 bytes of the base name of the process\N'39's executable file. The output in this column may contain spaces.       

.TP 
\fBfuid\fR, FUID
filesystem access user ID. (alias \fBfsuid\fR).       

.TP 
\fBfuser\fR, FUSER
filesystem access user ID. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.       

.TP 
\fBignored\fR, IGNORED
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBsigignore\fR, IGNORED
mask of the ignored signals, see \fBsignal(7)\fR. According to the width of the field, a 32\N'45'bit or 64\N'45'bit mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias \fBsig_ignore\fR).       

.TP 
\fBlabel\fR, LABEL
security label, most commonly used for SE Linux context data. This is for the Mandatory Access Control ("MAC") found on high\N'45'security systems.       

.TP 
\fBlstart\fR, STARTED
time the command started.       

.TP 
\fBlwp\fR, LWP
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBspid\fR, SPID
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBtid\fR, TID
lwp (light weight process, or thread) ID of the lwp being reported.       

.TP 
\fBni\fR, NI
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBnice\fR, NI
nice value. This ranges from 19 (nicest) to \N'45'20 (not nice to others), see \fBnice(1)\fR.       

.TP 
\fBnlwp\fR, NLWP
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBthcount\fR, THCNT
number of lwps (threads) in the process; number of kernel threads owned by the process.       

.TP 
\fBnwchan\fR, WCHAN
address of the kernel function where the process is sleeping (use \fBwchan\fR if you want the kernel function name). Running tasks will display a dash (\N'39'\N'45'\N'39') in this column.       

.TP 
\fBpending\fR, PENDING
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBsig\fR, PENDING
mask of the pending signals. See \fBsignal(7)\fR. Signals pending on the process are distinct from signals pending on individual threads. Use the \fBm\fR option or the \fB\N'45'm\fR option to see both. According to the width of the field, a 32\N'45'bit or 64\N'45'bit mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias \fBsig_pend\fR).       

.TP 
\fBpgid\fR, PGID
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBpgrp\fR, PGRP
process group ID or, equivalently, the process ID of the process group leader.       

.TP 
\fBpid\fR, PID
process ID number of the process.       

.TP 
\fBppid\fR, PPID
parent process ID.       

.TP 
\fBpsr\fR, PSR
processor that process is currently assigned to.       

.TP 
\fBrgid\fR, RGID
real group ID.       

.TP 
\fBrgroup\fR, RGROUP
real group name. This will be the textual group ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.       

.TP 
\fBrss\fR, RSS
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBrssize\fR, RSS
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBrsz\fR, RSZ
resident set size, the non\N'45'swapped physical memory that a task has used (in kiloBytes).       

.TP 
\fBrtprio\fR, RTPRIO
realtime priority.       

.TP 
\fBruid\fR, RUID
real user ID.       

.TP 
\fBruser\fR, RUSER
real user ID. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.       

.TP 
\fBs\fR, S
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBstate\fR, S
minimal state display (one character). See section \fB\fR for the different values. See also stat if you want additional information displayed.       

.TP 
\fBsched\fR, SCH
scheduling policy of the process. The policies \fBsched_other, sched_fifo\fR, and \fBsched_rr\fR are respectively displayed as 0, 1, and 2.       

.TP 
\fBsess\fR, SESS
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBsid\fR, SID
session ID or, equivalently, the process ID of the session leader. (alias \fBsession\fR).       

.TP 
\fBsgi_p\fR, P
processor that the process is currently executing on. Displays "*" if the process is not currently running or runnable.       

.TP 
\fBsgid\fR, SGID
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBsvgid\fR, SVGID
saved group ID.       

.TP 
\fBsgroup\fR, SGROUP
saved group name. This will be the textual group ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.       

.TP 
\fBsize\fR, SZ
approximate amount of swap space that would be required if the process were to dirty all writable pages and then be swapped out. This number is very rough!       

.TP 
\fBstackp\fR, STACKP
address of the bottom (start) of stack for the process.       

.TP 
\fBstart\fR, STARTED
time the command started. If the process was started less than 24 hours ago, the output format is "HH:MM:SS", else it is "  mmm dd" (where mmm is a three\N'45'letter month name).       

.TP 
\fBstart_time\fR, START
starting time or date of the process. Only the year will be displayed if the process was not started the same year \fBps\fR was invoked, or "mmmdd" if it was not started the same day, or "HH:MM" otherwise.       

.TP 
\fBstat\fR, STAT
multi\N'45'character process state. See section \fB\fR for the different values meaning. See also \fBs\fR and state if you just want the first character displayed.       

.TP 
\fBsuid\fR, SUID
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBsvuid\fR, SVUID
saved user ID.       

.TP 
\fBsuser\fR, SUSER
saved user name. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise. (alias \fBsvuser\fR).       

.TP 
\fBsz\fR, SZ
size in physical pages of the core image of the process. This includes text, data, and stack space. Device mappings are currently excluded; this is subject to change. See \fBvsz\fR and \fBrss\fR.       

.TP 
\fBtname\fR, TTY
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBtt\fR, TT
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBtty\fR, TT
controlling tty (terminal).       

.TP 
\fBtpgid\fR, TPGID
ID of the foreground process group on the tty (terminal) that the process is connected to, or \N'45'1 if the process is not connected to a tty.       

.TP 
\fBvsize\fR, VSZ
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBvsz\fR, VSZ
virtual memory size of the process in KiB (1024\N'45'byte units). Device mappings are currently excluded; this is subject to change.       

.TP 
\fBwchan\fR, WCHAN
name of the kernel function in which the process is sleeping, a "\N'45'" if the process is running, or a "*" if the process is multi\N'45'threaded and \fBps\fR is not displaying threads.       

.PP   

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES     
The following environment variables could affect \fBps\fR:     

.br
.ns
.TP 4
COLUMNS
Override default display width.       

.TP 4
LINES
Override default display height.       

.TP 4
PS_PERSONALITY
Set to one of posix, old, linux, bsd, sun, digital... (see section \fBPERSONALITY\fR below).       

.TP 4
CMD_ENV
Set to one of posix, old, linux, bsd, sun, digital... (see section \fBPERSONALITY\fR below).       

.TP 4
I_WANT_A_BROKEN_PS
Force obsolete command line interpretation.       

.TP 4
LC_TIME
Date format.       

.TP 4
PS_COLORS
Not currently supported.       

.TP 4
PS_FORMAT
Default output format override. You may set this to a format string of the type used for the \fB\N'45'o\fR option. The DefSysV and DefBSD values are particularly useful.       

.TP 4
PS_SYSMAP
Default namelist (System.map) location.       

.TP 4
PS_SYSTEM_MAP
Default namelist (System.map) location.       

.TP 4
POSIXLY_CORRECT
Don\N'39't find excuses to ignore bad "features"       

.TP 4
POSIX2
When set to "on", acts as POSIXLY_CORRECT.       

.TP 4
UNIX95
Don\N'39't find excuses to ignore bad "features".       

.TP 4
_XPG
Cancel CMD_ENV=irix non\N'45'standard behavior.       

.PP     
In general, it is a bad idea to set these variables. The one exception is       CMD_ENV or PS_PERSONALITY, which could be set to Linux for normal systems. Without that setting, \fBps\fR follows the useless and bad parts of the Unix98 standard.     
   

.SH PERSONALITY      
.RS 4
.nf
390         like the S/390 OpenEdition \fBps\fR
aix         like AIX \fBps\fR
bsd         like FreeBSD \fBps\fR (totally non\N'45'standard)
compaq      like Digital Unix \fBps\fR
debian      like the old Debian \fBps\fR
digital     like Tru64 (was Digital Unix, was OSF/1) \fBps\fR
gnu         like the old Debian \fBps\fR
hp          like HP\N'45'UX \fBps\fR
hpux        like HP\N'45'UX \fBps\fR
irix        like Irix \fBps\fR
linux       ***** RECOMMENDED *****
old         like the original Linux \fBps\fR (totally non\N'45'standard)
os390       like OS/390 Open Edition \fBps\fR
posix       standard
s390        like OS/390 Open Edition \fBps\fR
sco         like SCO \fBps\fR
sgi         like Irix \fBps\fR
solaris2    like Solaris 2+ (SunOS 5) \fBps\fR
sunos4      like SunOS 4 (Solaris 1) \fBps\fR (totally non\N'45'standard)
svr4        standard
sysv        standard
tru64       like Tru64 (was Digital Unix, was OSF/1) \fBps\fR
unix        standard
unix95      standard
unix98      standard
.fi
.RE   

.SH SEE ALSO     
\fBtop(1)\fR, \fBpgrep(1)\fR, \fBpstree(1)\fR, \fBproc(5)\fR.     
   

.SH STANDARDS     
This \fBps\fR conforms to: 

.RS 4
.nf
1    Version 2 of the Single Unix Specification
2    The Open Group Technical Standard Base Specifications, Issue 6
3    IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition
4    X/Open System Interfaces Extension [UP XSI]
5    ISO/IEC 9945:2003
.fi
.RE   

.SH AUTHOR     
ps was originally written by Branko Lankester <lankeste (at) fwi.uva.nl>. Michael K. Johnson <johnsonm (at) redhat.com> re\N'45'wrote it significantly to use the proc filesystem, changing a few things in the process. Michael Shields <mjshield (at) nyx.cs.du.edu> added the pid\N'45'list feature. Charles Blake <cblake (at) bbn.com> added multi\N'45'level sorting, the dirent\N'45'style library, the device name\N'45'to\N'45'number mmaped database, the approximate binary search directly on System.map, and many code and documentation cleanups. David Mossberger\N'45'Tang wrote the generic BFD support for psupdate. Albert Cahalan <albert (at) users.sf.net> rewrote \fBps\fR for full Unix98 and BSD support, along with some ugly hacks for obsolete and foreign syntax.     

Please send bug reports to <procps\N'45'feedback (at) lists.sf.net>. No subscription is required or suggested.     
    
   
