.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'27T17:32:47+02:00 
.ig
. manual page for NEW top
. Copyright (c) 2002, by:      JC Warner & Associates, Ltd.
.
. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
. under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
. any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
. with no Front\N'45'Cover Texts, no Back\N'45'Cover Texts, and with the following
. Invariant Sections (and any sub\N'45'sections therein):
.   all .ig sections, including this one
.   STUPID TRICKS Sampler
.   AUTHOR
.
. A copy of the Free Documentation License is included in the section
. entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".
.
. [ that section is found near the end of this document & ]
. [ can be made printable by disabling the .ig directive! ]
.
..
   
.TH "top" 1 "September 2002" "procps 3.2.7" "User\N'39's Commands"
.nh
.PD 0    
.SH İSİM
top \N'45' display Linux tasks    

.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBtop \N'45'hv \fR| \fB\N'45'bcHisS \N'45'd \fR\fIdelay \fR\fB\N'45'n \fR\fIiterations \fR\fB\N'45'p \fR\fIpid \fR[, \fIpid \fR...]

The traditional switches \N'39'\N'45'\N'39' and whitespace are optional.
.fi       

.SH DESCRIPTION     
The  \fBtop\fR  program provides a dynamic real\N'45'time view of a running system.  It can display \fBsystem\fR summary information as well as a list of  \fBtasks\fR currently  being managed  by the Linux kernel.  The types of system summary information shown and the types, order and size of information displayed for tasks are all  user  con\N'45' figurable and that configuration can be made persistent across restarts.     

The program provides a limited interactive interface for process manipulation as well as a much more extensive interface for personal configuration   \N'45'\N'45'   encom\N'45' passing  every aspect of its operation.  And while \fBtop\fR is referred to throughout this document, you are free to name the program anything  you  wish.   That  new name,  possibly  an alias, will then be reflected on top\N'39's display and used when reading and writing a configuration file.     
   

.SH OVERVIEW     

.SS Operation       
When operating top, the two most important keys are help (\N'39'h\N'39' or \N'39'?\N'39')  and  quit (\N'39'q\N'39')  key.   Alternatively,  you could simply use the traditional interrupt key (\N'39'^C\N'39') when you\N'39're done.       

When you start top for the first time, you\N'39'll be presented with the  traditional screen  elements: 1) Summary Area; 2) Message/Prompt Line; 3) Columns Header; 4) Task Area.  There will, however, be some differences when compared to the former top.       

.br
.ns
.TP 3
\fBHighlighting\fR
\fBSummary_Area\fR:  There  is  no highlighting for load/uptime and only values are highlighted for other elements.         

\fBTask_Area\fR: Tasks running (or ready to run) will be highlighted, and  bold  is only one way of emphasizing such processes.         

.TP 3
\fBContent/Labels\fR
\fBSummary_Area\fR:  The  program  name  is shown, perhaps a symlink or alias.  The Cpu(s) state label hints at other possibilities.   The  memory  stats  use  a lower case \N'39'k\N'39'.         

\fBColumns_Header\fR:  Will  show  a  new  field and some changed labels.  More new fields will be found as you customize your top.         

.PP       
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBBilgi:\fR
The width of top\N'39's display will be limited to 512  positions.   Displaying all  fields  requires a minimum of 160 characters.  The remaining width could be used for the \N'39'Command\N'39' column.       

.PP     

.SS Startup Defaults       
The following startup defaults assume no configuration file, thus no  user  cus\N'45' tomizations.   Even  so,  items shown with an asterisk (\N'39'*\N'39') could be overridden through the command\N'45'line.       


.RS 4
.nf
\fBGlobal_defaults\fR
\  \N'39'A\N'39' \N'45' Alt display      Off (full\N'45'screen)
* \N'39'd\N'39' \N'45' Delay time       3.0 seconds
\  \N'39'I\N'39' \N'45' Irix mode        On  (no, \N'39'solaris\N'39' smp)
* \N'39'p\N'39' \N'45' PID monitoring   Off
* \N'39's\N'39' \N'45' Secure mode      Off (unsecured)
\  \N'39'B\N'39' \N'45' Bold disable     Off
\fBSummary_Area_defaults\fR
\  \N'39'l\N'39' \N'45' Load Avg/Uptime  On  (thus program name)
\  \N'39't\N'39' \N'45' Task/Cpu states  On  (1+1 lines, see \N'39'1\N'39')
\  \N'39'm\N'39' \N'45' Mem/Swap usage   On  (2 lines worth)
\  \N'39'1\N'39' \N'45' Single Cpu       On  (thus 1 line if smp)
\fBTask_Area_defaults\fR
\  \N'39'b\N'39' \N'45' Bold hilite      On  (not \N'39'reverse\N'39')
* \N'39'c\N'39' \N'45' Command line     Off (name, not cmdline)
* \N'39'H\N'39' \N'45' Threads          Off (show all threads)
* \N'39'i\N'39' \N'45' Idle tasks       On  (show all tasks)
\  \N'39'R\N'39' \N'45' Reverse sort     On  (pids high\N'45'to\N'45'low)
* \N'39'S\N'39' \N'45' Cumulative time  Off (no, dead children)
\  \N'39'x\N'39' \N'45' Column hilite    Off (no, sort field)
\  \N'39'y\N'39' \N'45' Row hilite       On  (yes, running tasks)
\  \N'39'z\N'39' \N'45' color/mono       Off (no, colors)
.fi
.RE
        

.SH COMMAND\N'45'LINE OPTIONS     
The command\N'45'line syntax for top consists of:     
 
.nf
\fBtop \N'45'hv \fR| \fB\N'45'bcHisS \N'45'd \fR\fIdelay \fR\fB\N'45'n \fR\fIiterations \fR\fB\N'45'p \fR\fIpid \fR[, \fIpid \fR...]
\ 
.fi     
The typically mandatory  switches  (\N'39'\N'45'\N'39')  and  even  whitespace  are  completely optional.     
       
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'b\fR           
\fBBatch mode\fR operation
.br
Starts  top  in \N'39'Batch mode\N'39', which could be useful for sending output from top to other programs or to a file.  In this  mode,  top  will  not  accept input  and  runs  until  the iterations limit you\N'39've set with the \N'39'\N'45'n\N'39' com\N'45' mand\N'45'line option or until killed.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'c\fR           
\fBCommand line/Program name\fR toggle
.br
Starts top with the last remembered \N'39'c\N'39' state reversed.  Thus, if  top  was displaying  command lines, now that field will show program names, and visa versa.  See the \N'39'c\N'39' interactive command for additional information.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'd\fR           
\fBDelay time\fR interval as:  \fB\N'45'd ss.tt\fR (\fIseconds.tenths\fR)
.br
Specifies the delay between screen updates, and overrides the corresponding value  in  one\N'39's personal configuration file or the startup default.  Later this can be changed with the \N'39'd\N'39' or \N'39's\N'39' interactive commands.           

Fractional seconds are honored, but a negative number is not  allowed.   In all  cases,  however,  such  changes  are  prohibited  if top is running in \N'39'Secure mode\N'39', except for root (unless  the  \N'39's\N'39'  command\N'45'line  option  was used).   For  additional  information on \N'39'Secure mode\N'39' see topic 5a. SYSTEM Configuration File.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'h\fR           
\fBHelp\fR
.br
Show library version and the usage prompt, then quit.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'H\fR           
\fBThreads\fR toggle
.br
Starts top with the last remembered \N'39'H\N'39' state reversed.  When  this  toggle is On, all individual threads will be displayed.  Otherwise, top displays a summation of all threads in a process.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'i\fR           
\fBIdle Processes\fR toggle
.br
Starts top with the last remembered \N'39'i\N'39' state reversed.  When  this  toggle is Off, tasks that are idled or zombied will not be displayed.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'n\fR           
\fBNumber of iterations\fR limit as:  \fB\N'45'n \fR\fInumber\fR
.br
Specifies  the  maximum number of iterations, or frames, top should produce before ending.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'u\fR           
\fBMonitor by user\fR as:  \fB\N'45'u \fR\fIsomebody\fR
.br
Monitor only processes with an effective UID or  user  name  matching  that given.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'U\fR           
\fBMonitor by user\fR as:  \fB\N'45'U \fR\fIsomebody\fR
.br
Monitor  only  processes with a UID or user name matching that given.  This matches real, effective, saved, and filesystem UIDs.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'p\fR           
\fBMonitor PIDs\fR as:  \fB\N'45'p\fR\fIn1\fR \fB\N'45'p\fR\fIn2\fR ...  or  \fB\N'45'p\fR\fIn1\fR, \fIn2\fR [,...]
.br
Monitor only processes with specified process  IDs.   This  option  can  be given  up to 20 times, or you can provide a comma delimited list with up to 20 pids.  Co\N'45'mingling both approaches is permitted.           

This is a command\N'45'line option only.  And should you wish to return to  nor\N'45' mal  operation,  it  is not necessary to quit and and restart top  \N'45'\N'45'  just issue the \N'39'=\N'39' interactive command.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45's\fR           
\fBSecure mode\fR operation
.br
Starts top with secure mode forced, even for root.  This mode is far better controlled through the system configuration file (see topic 5. FILES).           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'S\fR           
\fBCumulative time mode\fR toggle
.br
Starts  top  with the last remembered \N'39'S\N'39' state reversed.  When \N'39'Cumulative mode\N'39' is On, each process is listed with the cpu time that it and its  dead children  have used.  See the \N'39'S\N'39' interactive command for additional infor\N'45' mation regarding this mode.           
         
.TP 5
\fB\N'45'v\fR           
\fBVersion\fR
.br
Show library version and the usage prompt, then quit.           
         
.PP        

.SH FIELDS / COLUMNS     

.SS DESCRIPTIONS of Fields       
Listed below are top\N'39's available fields.  They are always  associated  with  the letter  shown, regardless of the position you may have established for them with the \N'39'o\N'39' (Order fields) interactive command.       

Any field is selectable as the sort field, and  you  control  whether  they  are sorted  high\N'45'to\N'45'low  or  low\N'45'to\N'45'high.  For additional information on sort provi\N'45' sions see topic 3c. TASK Area Commands.       
         
.br
.ns
.TP 3
a: \fBPID\fR \N'45'\N'45' Process Id             
The task\N'39's unique process ID, which periodically wraps, though never restarting at zero.             
           
.TP 3
b: \fBPPID\fR \N'45'\N'45' Parent Process Pid             
The process ID of a task\N'39's parent.             
           
.TP 3
c: \fBRUSER\fR \N'45'\N'45' Real User Name             
The real user name of the task\N'39's owner.             
           
.TP 3
d: \fBUID\fR \N'45'\N'45' User Id             
The effective user ID of the task\N'39's owner.             
           
.TP 3
e: \fBUSER\fR \N'45'\N'45' User Name             
The effective user name of the task\N'39's owner.             
           
.TP 3
f: \fBGROUP\fR \N'45'\N'45' Group Name             
The effective group name of the task\N'39's owner.             
           
.TP 3
g: \fBTTY\fR \N'45'\N'45' Controlling Tty             
The  name  of  the  controlling terminal.  This is usually the device (serial port, pty, etc.) from which the process was started, and which  it  uses  for input  or output.  However, a task need not be associated with a terminal, in which case you\N'39'll see \N'39'?\N'39' displayed.             
           
.TP 3
h: \fBPR\fR \N'45'\N'45' Priority             
The priority of the task.             
           
.TP 3
i: \fBNI\fR \N'45'\N'45' Nice value             
The nice value of the task.  A negative nice  value  means  higher  priority, whereas  a positive nice value means lower priority.  Zero in this field sim\N'45' ply means priority will not be adjusted in determining a task\N'39's dispatchabil\N'45' ity.             
           
.TP 3
j: \fBP\fR \N'45'\N'45' Last used CPU (SMP)             
A  number  representing  the  last used processor.  In a true SMP environment this will likely change frequently since the kernel intentionally  uses  weak affinity.  Also, the very act of running top may break this weak affinity and cause more processes to change CPUs more often (because of the  extra  demand for cpu time).             
           
.TP 3
k: \fB%CPU\fR \N'45'\N'45' CPU usage             
The  task\N'39's  share  of  the  elapsed  CPU  time since the last screen update, expressed as a percentage of total CPU time.  In a true SMP  environment,  if \N'39'Irix  mode\N'39'  is  Off,  top will operate in \N'39'Solaris mode\N'39' where a task\N'39's cpu usage will be divided by the total number of CPUs.  You toggle \N'39'Irix/Solaris\N'39' modes with the \N'39'I\N'39' interactive command.             
           
.TP 3
l: \fBTIME\fR \N'45'\N'45' CPU Time             
Total CPU time the task has used since it started.  When \N'39'Cumulative mode\N'39' is On, each process is listed with the cpu time that it and  its  dead  children has  used.   You  toggle  \N'39'Cumulative mode\N'39' with \N'39'S\N'39', which is a command\N'45'line option and an interactive command.  See the \N'39'S\N'39' interactive command for addi\N'45' tional information regarding this mode.             
           
.TP 3
m: \fBTIME+\fR \N'45'\N'45' CPU Time, hundredths             
The  same  as \N'39'TIME\N'39', but reflecting more granularity through hundredths of a second.             
           
.TP 3
n: \fB%MEM\fR \N'45'\N'45' Memory usage (RES)             
A task\N'39's currently used share of available physical memory.             
           
.TP 3
o: \fBVIRT\fR \N'45'\N'45' Virtual Image (kb)             
The total amount of virtual memory used by the task.  It includes  all  code, data and shared libraries plus pages that have been swapped out.             

VIRT = SWAP + RES.             
           
.TP 3
p: \fBSWAP\fR \N'45'\N'45' Swapped size (kb)             
The swapped out portion of a task\N'39's total virtual memory image.             
           
.TP 3
q: \fBRES\fR \N'45'\N'45' Resident size (kb)             
The non\N'45'swapped physical memory a task has used.             

RES = CODE + DATA.             
           
.TP 3
r: \fBCODE\fR \N'45'\N'45' Code size (kb)             
The  amount  of physical memory devoted to executable code, also known as the \N'39'text resident set\N'39' size or TRS.             
           
.TP 3
s: \fBDATA\fR \N'45'\N'45' Data+Stack size (kb)             
The amount of physical memory devoted to other  than  executable  code,  also known as the \N'39'data resident set\N'39' size or DRS.             
           
.TP 3
t: \fBSHR\fR \N'45'\N'45' Shared Mem size (kb)             
The  amount  of shared memory used by a task.  It simply reflects memory that could be potentially shared with other processes.             
           
.TP 3
u: \fBnFLT\fR \N'45'\N'45' Page Fault count             
The number of major page faults that have occurred for a task.  A page  fault occurs  when  a process attempts to read from or write to a virtual page that is not currently present in its address space.  A major page  fault  is  when disk access is involved in making that page available.             
           
.TP 3
v: \fBnDRT\fR \N'45'\N'45' Dirty Pages count             
The  number  of pages that have been modified since they were last written to disk.  Dirty pages must be written to disk before the corresponding  physical memory location can be used for some other virtual page.             
           
.TP 3
w: \fBS\fR \N'45'\N'45' Process Status             
The status of the task which can be one of: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 3
.nf
\N'39'\fBD\fR\N'39' = uninterruptible sleep
\N'39'\fBR\fR\N'39' = running
\N'39'\fBS\fR\N'39' = sleeping
\N'39'\fBT\fR\N'39' = traced or stopped
\N'39'\fBZ\fR\N'39' = zombie
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP

Tasks  shown  as running should be more properly thought of as \N'39'ready to run\N'39'   \N'45'\N'45'  their task_struct is simply represented on the  Linux  run\N'45'queue.   Even without  a true SMP machine, you may see numerous tasks in this state depend\N'45' ing on top\N'39's delay interval and nice value.             
           
.TP 3
x: \fBCommand\fR \N'45'\N'45' Command line or Program name             
Display the command line used to start a task or the name of  the  associated program.   You toggle between command line and name with \N'39'c\N'39', which is both a command\N'45'line option and an interactive command.             

When you\N'39've chosen to display command lines, processes without a command line (like  kernel  threads) will be shown with only the program name in parenthe\N'45' ses, as in this example: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 4
.nf
( mdrecoveryd )
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP

Either form of display is subject to potential truncation if it\N'39's too long to fit  in  this  field\N'39's  current  width.  That width depends upon other fields selected, their order and the current screen width.             

.RS 3
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBBilgi:\fR
The \N'39'Command\N'39' field/column is unique, in that it  is  not  fixed\N'45'width. When  displayed, this column will be allocated all remaining screen width (up to the maximum 512 characters) to provide for the potential growth of program names into command lines.             

.PP
.RE
.IP           

.TP 3
y: WCHAN \N'45'\N'45' Sleeping in Function             
Depending  on  the  availability  of the kernel link map (\N'39'System.map\N'39'), this field will show the name or the address of the kernel function in  which  the task  is currently sleeping.  Running tasks will display a dash (\N'39'\N'45'\N'39') in this column.             

.RS 3
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBBilgi:\fR
By displaying this field, top\N'39's own working set will  be  increased  by over  700Kb.   Your  only means of reducing that overhead will be to stop and restart top.             

.PP
.RE
.IP           

.TP 3
z: \fBFlags\fR \N'45'\N'45' Task Flags             
This  column  represents  the  task\N'39's  current  scheduling  flags  which  are expressed in hexadecimal notation and with zeros suppressed.  These flags are officially documented in %lt;linux/sched.h>.  Less formal documentation can also be found on the \N'39'Fields select\N'39' and \N'39'Order fields\N'39' screens.             
           
.PP                 

.SS SELECTING and ORDERING Columns       
After  pressing  the  interactive  commands  \N'39'\fBf\fR\N'39'  (Fields  select) or \N'39'\fBo\fR\N'39' (Order fields) you will be shown a screen containing the current \fBfields string\fR followed by names and descriptions for all fields.       

Here  is  a sample fields string from one of top\N'39's four windows/field groups and an explanation of the conventions used:       
         
.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
Sample fields string: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 4
.nf
ANOPQRSTUVXbcdefgjlmyzWHIK
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP
         
.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
The order of displayed fields corresponds to the order of the letters in that string.         
         
.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
If the letter is \fIupper case\fR the corresponding field itself will then be shown as part of the task display (screen width permitting).   This  will  also  be indicated by a leading asterisk (\N'39'*\N'39'), as in this excerpt: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 4
.nf
...
\fB* K: %CPU\fR       = CPU usage
\  l: TIME       = CPU Time
\  m: TIME+      = CPU Time, hundredths
\fB* N: %MEM\fR       = Memory usage (RES)
\fB* O: VIRT\fR       = Virtual Image (kb)
...
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP         

.PP              
.br
.ns
.TP 3
\fBFields select\fR screen \N'45'\N'45' the \N'39'\fBf\fR\N'39' interactive command           
You  \fItoggle\fR  the \fBdisplay\fR of a field by simply pressing the corresponding letter.           
         
.TP 3
\fBOrder fields\fR screen \N'45'\N'45' the \N'39'\fBo\fR\N'39' interactive command           
You \fImove\fR a field to the \fBleft\fR by pressing the corresponding \fBupper case\fR  letter and to the \fBright\fR with the \fBlower case\fR letter.           
         
.PP     

.SS CPU States       
The CPU states are shown in the Summary Area. They are always shown  as  a  percentage and are for the time between now and the last refresh.       

.br
.ns
.TP 3
\fB us\fR \N'45'\N'45' User CPU time
The time the CPU has spent running users\N'39' processes that are not niced.         

.TP 3
\fB sy\fR \N'45'\N'45' System CPU time
The time the CPU has spent running the kernel and its processes.         

.TP 3
\fB ni\fR \N'45'\N'45' Nice CPU time
The time the CPU has spent running users\N'39' proccess that have been niced.         

.TP 3
\fB wa\fR \N'45'\N'45' iowait
Amount of time the CPU has been waiting for I/O to complete.         

.TP 3
\fB hi\fR \N'45'\N'45' Hardware IRQ
The amount of time the CPU has been servicing hardware interrupts.         

.TP 3
\fB si\fR \N'45'\N'45' Software Interrupts
The amount of time the CPU has been servicing software interrupts.         

.PP        

.SH INTERACTIVE COMMANDS     
Listed  below  is  a  brief  index of commands within categories.  Some commands appear more than once  \N'45'\N'45'  their meaning or scope may vary depending on the con\N'45' text in which they are issued.     

.br
.ns
.TP 
\ \ GLOBAL Commands
<Ret/Sp> ?, =, A, B, d, G, h, I, k, q, r, s, W, Z       

.TP 
\ \ SUMMARY Area Commands
l, m, t, 1       

.TP 
\ \ TASK Area Commands 
.nf
Appearance:  b, x, y, z
Content:     c, f, H, o, S, u
Size:        #, i, n
Sorting:     <, >, F, O, R
.fi
.TP 
\ \ COLOR Mapping
<Ret>, a, B, b, H, M, q, S, T, w, z, 0 \N'45' 7       

.TP 
\ \ COMMANDS for Windows
\N'45', _, =, +, A, a, G, g, w       

.PP     

.SS GLOBAL Commands       
The  global  interactive  commands are \fBalways\fR available in both full\N'45'screen mode and alternate\N'45'display mode.  However, some of these interactive commands are \fBnot available\fR when running in \N'39'Secure mode\N'39'.       

If  you wish to know in advance whether or not your top has been secured, simply ask for help and view the system summary on the second line.       
         
.br
.ns
.TP 7
\ \ <\fBEnter\fR> or <\fBSpace\fR>: \fBRefresh Display\fR
These commands do nothing, they are simply ignored.  However,  they  will awaken  top and following receipt of any input the entire display will be repainted.           

Use either of these keys if you have a large delay interval and  wish  to see current status,           

.TP 7
\N'39'\fB?\fR\N'39' or \N'39'\fBh\fR\N'39': \fIHelp\fR
There  are  two help levels available.  The first will provide a reminder of all the basic interactive commands.  If top is  \fIsecured\fR,  that  screen will be abbreviated.           

Typing  \N'39'h\N'39'  or  \N'39'?\N'39'  on that help screen will take you to help for those interactive commands applicable to alternate\N'45'display mode.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'=\N'39': \fIExit_Task_Limits\fR
Removes restrictions on which tasks are shown.  This command will reverse any  \N'39'i\N'39'  (idle tasks) and \N'39'n\N'39' (max tasks) commands that might be active. It also provides for an \N'39'exit\N'39' from PID monitoring.  See  the  \N'39'\N'45'p\N'39'  com\N'45' mand\N'45'line option for a discussion of PID monitoring.           

When  operating  in  alternate\N'45'display  mode  this command has a slightly broader meaning.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBA\fR\N'39': \fIAlternate Display Mode toggle\fR
This command will switch between full\N'45'screen mode  and  alternate\N'45'display mode.   See  topic 4. ALTERNATE\N'45'DISPLAY Mode and the \N'39'G\N'39' interactive com\N'45' mand for insight into \N'39'current\N'39' windows and field groups.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBB\fR\N'39': \fIBold Disable/Enable toggle\fR
This command will influence use of the  \N'39'bold\N'39'  terminfo  capability  and alters  \fIboth\fR  the  summary  area  and task area for the \N'39'current\N'39' window. While it is intended primarily for use with dumb  terminals,  it  can  be applied anytime.           

.RS 7
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBBilgi:\fR
When this toggle is On and top is operating in monochrome mode, the \fBentire display\fR will appear as normal text.  Thus, unless the  \N'39'x\N'39'  and/or \N'39'y\N'39'  toggles are using reverse for emphasis, there will be no visual con\N'45' firmation that they are even on.           

.PP
.RE
.IP

.TP 7
* \N'39'\fBd\fR\N'39' or \N'39'\fBs\fR\N'39'
\fIChange Delay Time interval\fR
.br
You will be prompted to enter the delay time, in seconds, between display updates.           

Fractional  seconds  are  honored,  but a negative number is not allowed. Entering 0 causes (nearly) continuous  updates,  with  an  unsatisfactory display  as  the system and tty driver try to keep up with top\N'39's demands. The delay value is inversely proportional to system loading,  so  set  it with care.           

If  at  any  time you wish to know the current delay time, simply ask for help and view the system summary on the second line.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBG\fR\N'39'
\fIChoose Another Window/Field Group \fR
.br
You will be prompted to enter a number between 1 and  4  designating  the window/field  group  which should be made the \N'39'current\N'39' window.  You will soon grow comfortable with these 4 windows, especially after  experiment\N'45' ing with alternate\N'45'display mode.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBI\fR\N'39'
\fIIrix/Solaris Mode toggle\fR
.br
When  operating  in  \N'39'Solaris mode\N'39' (\N'39'I\N'39' toggled \fIOff\fR), a task\N'39's cpu usage will be divided by the total number of CPUs.  After issuing this command, you\N'39'll be informed of the new state of this toggle.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBu\fR\N'39'
\fIselect a user\fR
.br
You  will  be prompted for a UID or username. Only processes belonging to the selected user will be displayed. This option matches on the effective UID.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBU\fR\N'39'
\fIselect a user\fR
.br
You  will  be prompted for a UID or username. Only processes belonging to the selected user will be displayed. This option  matches  on  the  real, effective, saved, and filesystem UID.           

.TP 7
* \N'39'\fBk\fR\N'39'
\fI Kill a task\fR
.br
You  will be prompted for a PID and then the signal to send.  The default signal, as reflected in the prompt, is SIGTERM.  However,  you  can  send any signal, via number or name.           

If  you wish to abort the kill process, do one of the following depending on your progress: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 3
.nf
1) at the pid prompt, just press <Enter>
2) at the signal prompt, type 0
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBq\fR\N'39'
\fIQuit\fR

.TP 7
* \N'39'\fBr\fR\N'39'
\fIRenice a Task\fR
.br
You will be prompted for a PID and then the value to nice it to.   Enter\N'45' ing  a positive value will cause a process to lose priority.  Conversely, a negative value will cause a process to be viewed more favorably by  the kernel.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBW\fR\N'39'
\fIWrite the Configuration File\fR
.br
This  will  save all of your options and toggles plus the current display mode and delay time.  By issuing this command just before  quitting  top, you will be able restart later in exactly that same state.           

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBZ\fR\N'39'
\fIChange Color Mapping\fR
.br
This key will take you to a separate screen where you can change the col\N'45' ors for the \N'39'current\N'39' window, or for all windows.  For details  regarding this interactive command see topic 3d. COLOR Mapping.           

.PP       
The commands shown with an asterisk (\N'39'*\N'39') are not available in \N'39'Secure mode\N'39',   nor will they be shown on the level\N'45'1 help screen.       
     

.SS SUMMARY Area Commands       
The summary area interactive commands are \fBalways available\fR in  both  full\N'45'screen mode  and  alternate\N'45'display mode.  They affect the beginning lines of your dis\N'45' play and will determine the position of messages and prompts.       

These commands always impact just the \N'39'current\N'39' window/field group.   See  topic 4. ALTERNATE\N'45'DISPLAY Mode and the \N'39'G\N'39' interactive command for insight into \N'39'cur\N'45' rent\N'39' windows and field groups.       

.br
.ns
.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBl\fR\N'39'
\fIToggle_Load_Average/Uptime\fR  \N'45'\N'45'  On/Off
.br
This is also the line containing the program  name  (possibly  an  alias) when  operating  in  full\N'45'screen  mode  or the \N'39'current\N'39' window name when operating in alternate\N'45'display mode.         

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBm\fR\N'39'
\fIToggle_Memory/Swap_Usage\fR  \N'45'\N'45'  On/Off This command affects two summary area lines.         

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fBt\fR\N'39'
\fIToggle_Task/Cpu_States\fR  \N'45'\N'45'  On/Off
.br
This command affects from 2 to many summary area lines, depending on  the state of the \N'39'1\N'39' toggle and whether or not top is running under true SMP.         

.TP 7
\ \ \N'39'\fB1\fR\N'39'
\fIToggle_Single/Separate_Cpu_States\fR  \N'45'\N'45'  On/Off
.br
This command affects how the \N'39't\N'39' command\N'39's Cpu States portion  is  shown. Although  this  toggle  exists  primarily to serve massively\N'45'parallel SMP machines, it is not restricted to solely SMP environments.         

When you see \N'39'Cpu(s):\N'39' in the summary area, the \N'39'1\N'39' toggle is On and  all cpu  information  is  gathered  in a single line.  Otherwise, each cpu is displayed separately as: \N'39'Cpu0, Cpu1, ...\N'39'         

.PP       
.br
.ns
.TP 7
\fBBilgi:\fR
If the entire summary area has been toggled Off for any window, you  would be left with just the \fBmessage line\fR.  In that way, you will have maximized avail\N'45' able task rows but (temporarily) sacrificed the program name in full\N'45'screen mode or the \N'39'current\N'39' window name when in alternate\N'45'display mode.       

.PP
     

.SS TASK Area Commands       
The task area interactive commands are \fBalways\fR available in full\N'45'screen mode.       

The task area interactive commands are never available in alternate\N'45'display mode if the \N'39'current\N'39' window\N'39's task display has been toggled Off (see topic 4. ALTER\N'45' NATE\N'45'DISPLAY Mode).       

.br
.ns
.TP 2
\fBAPPEARANCE\fR of task window
The  following commands will also be influenced by the state of the global \N'39'B\N'39' (bold disable) toggle.         


.RS 2
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\N'39'\fBb\fR\N'39'
\fIBold/Reverse toggle\fR
.br
This command will impact how the \N'39'x\N'39' and \N'39'y\N'39' toggles are displayed.  Fur\N'45' ther, it will only be available when at least one of those toggles is On.             

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBx\fR\N'39'
\fIColumn Highlight toggle\fR
.br
Changes highlighting for the current sort field.  You probably don\N'39't need a  constant  visual  reminder  of  the  sort field and top hopes that you always run with \N'39'column highlight\N'39' Off, due to the cost in path\N'45'length.             

If you forget which field is being sorted this command  can  serve  as  a quick visual reminder.             

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBy\fR\N'39'
\fIRow Highlight toggle\fR
.br
Changes  highlighting  for  "running" tasks.  For additional insight into this task state, see topic 2a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields, Process Status.             

Use of this provision  provides  important  insight  into  your  system\N'39's health.  The only costs will be a few additional tty escape sequences.             

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBz\fR\N'39'
\fIColor/Monochrome toggle\fR
.br
Switches the \N'39'current\N'39' window between your last used color scheme and the older form of black\N'45'on\N'45'white or white\N'45'on\N'45'black.  This command will  alter both  the summary area and task area but does not affect the state of the \N'39'x\N'39', \N'39'y\N'39' or \N'39'b\N'39' toggles.           

.PP
.RE
.IP       

.TP 2
\fBCONTENT\fR of task window

.RS 2
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\N'39'\fBc\fR\N'39'
\fICommand Line/Program Name toggle\fR
.br
This command will be honored whether or not the \N'39'Command\N'39' column is  cur\N'45' rently  visible.  Later, should that field come into view, the change you applied will be seen.           

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBf\fR\N'39' and \N'39'\fBo\fR\N'39'
\fIFields select or Order fields\fR
.br
These keys display separate screens where you can change which fields are displayed  and their order.  For additional information on these interac\N'45' tive commands see topic 2b. SELECTING and ORDERING Columns.           

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBH\fR\N'39'
\fIThreads toggle\fR When this toggle is On, all individual threads will be displayed.  Other\N'45' wise, top displays a summation of all threads in a process.           

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBS\fR\N'39'
\fICumulative Time Mode toggle\fR
.br
When  \N'39'Cumulative  mode\N'39'  is On, each process is listed with the cpu time that it and its dead children have used.           

When Off, programs that fork into many separate tasks  will  appear  less demanding.   For  programs like \N'39'init\N'39' or a shell this is appropriate but for others, like compilers, perhaps not.  Experiment with two  task  win\N'45' dows  sharing  the  same sort field but with different \N'39'S\N'39' states and see which representation you prefer.           

After issuing this command, you\N'39'll be informed of the new state  of  this toggle.   If you wish to know in advance whether or not \N'39'Cumulative mode\N'39' is in effect, simply ask for help and view the window summary on the sec\N'45' ond line.           

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBu\fR\N'39'
\fIShow_Specific_User_Only\fR
.br
You  will  be  prompted to enter the name of the user to display.  There\N'45' after, in that task window only matching User ID\N'39's will be shown, or pos\N'45' sibly no tasks will be shown.           

Later,  if you wish to monitor all tasks again, re\N'45'issue this command but just press <Enter> at the prompt, without providing a name.           

.PP
.RE
.IP       

.TP 2
\fBSIZE\fR of task window

.RS 2
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\N'39'\fBi\fR\N'39'
\fIIdle Processes toggle\fR
.br
Displays all tasks or just active tasks.  When this toggle is Off,  idled or zombied processes will not be displayed.           

If  this  command  is  applied  to  the  last task display when in alter\N'45' nate\N'45'display mode, then it will not affect  the  window\N'39's  size,  as  all prior task displays will have already been painted.           

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBn\fR\N'39' or \N'39'\fB#\fR\N'39'
\fISet Maximum Tasks\fR
.br
You will be prompted to enter the number of tasks to display.  The lessor of your number and available screen rows will be used.           

When used in alternate\N'45'display mode, this is the command that  gives  you precise  control  over  the  size of each currently visible task display, except for the very last.  It will not affect the last window\N'39's size,  as all prior task displays will have already been painted.           

.RS 5
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBBilgi:\fR
If  you wish to increase the size of the last visible task display when in alternate\N'45'display mode, simply decrease the size of the task dis\N'45' play(s) above it.           

.PP
.RE
.IP

.PP
.RE
.IP       

.TP 2
\fBSORTING\fR of task window
For  compatibility, this top supports most of the former top sort keys.  Since this is primarily a service to former top users, these commands do not  appear on any help screen. 
.IP
.RS
.RS 3
.nf
\fBcommand   sorted field                  supported\fR
\  A         start time (non\N'45'display)      No
\  M         %MEM                          Yes
\  N         PID                           Yes
\  P         %CPU                          Yes
\  T         TIME+                         Yes
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP

Before  using any of the following sort provisions, top suggests that you tem\N'45' porarily turn on column highlighting using the \N'39'x\N'39' interactive command.   That will help ensure that the actual sort environment matches your intent.       

The  following interactive commands will only be honored when the current sort field is visible.  The sort field might not be visible because: 
.IP
.RS
.RS 5
.nf
1) there is insufficient Screen Width
2) the \N'39'f\N'39' interactive command turned it Off
.fi
.RE
.RE
.IP       


.RS 2
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\N'39'\fB<\fR\N'39'
\fIMove Sort Field Left\fR
.br
Moves the sort column to the left unless the current sort  field  is  the first field being displayed.           

.TP 5
\N'39'\fB>\fR\N'39'
\fIMove Sort Field Right\fR
.br
Moves  the  sort column to the right unless the current sort field is the last field being displayed.           

.PP
.RE
.IP       

The following interactive commands will always be honored whether or  not  the current sort field is visible.       


.RS 2
.br
.ns
.TP 5
\N'39'\fBF\fR\N'39' or \N'39'\fBO\fR\N'39'
\fISelect Sort Field\fR
.br
These  keys display a separate screen where you can change which field is used as the sort column.           

If a field is selected which was not previously being displayed, it  will be forced On when you return to the top display.  However, depending upon your screen width and the order of your fields, this sort field  may  not be displayable.           

This  interactive  command  can  be a convenient way to simply verify the current sort field, when running top with column highlighting turned Off.           

.TP 5
\N'39'\fBR\fR\N'39'
\fIReverse/Normal Sort Field toggle\fR
.br
Using  this interactive command you can alternate between high\N'45'to\N'45'low and low\N'45'to\N'45'high sorts.           

.PP
.RE
.IP       

.RS 2
.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBBilgi:\fR
Field sorting uses internal values, not those in column display.   Thus, the TTY and WCHAN fields will violate strict ASCII collating sequence.       

.PP
.RE
.IP

.PP   

.SS COLOR Mapping     
When  you  issue the \N'39'Z\N'39' interactive command, you will be presented with a sepa\N'45' rate screen.  That screen can be used to change the colors in just the \N'39'current\N'39' window or in all four windows before returning to the top display.       

.br
.ns
.TP 4
\fBAvailable interactive commands\fR 
.nf
4 upper case letters to select a target
8 numbers to select a color
\fBnormal toggles available\fR
\    \N'39'B\N'39'       :bold disable/enable
\    \N'39'b\N'39'       :running tasks "bold"/reverse
\    \N'39'z\N'39'       :color/mono
\fBother commands available\fR
\    \N'39'a\N'39'/\N'39'w\N'39'   :apply, then go to next/prior
\    <Enter>   :apply and exit
\    \N'39'q\N'39'       :abandon current changes and exit

.fi
.PP
If  your  use \N'39'a\N'39' or \N'39'w\N'39' to cycle the targeted window, you will have applied the color scheme that was displayed when you left that window.  You can, of  course, easily return to any window and reapply different colors or turn colors Off com\N'45' pletely with the \N'39'z\N'39' toggle.       

The Color Mapping screen can also be used to change the  \N'39'current\N'39'  window/field group  in  either full\N'45'screen mode or alternate\N'45'display mode.  Whatever was tar\N'45' geted when \N'39'q\N'39' or <Enter> was pressed will be made current as you return to  the top display.       
        

.SH ALTERNATE\N'45'DISPLAY MODE     

.SS WINDOWS Overview       

.B Field Groups/Windows:
.RS 4         
In  full\N'45'screen  mode  there is a single window represented by the entire screen.  That single window can still be changed to display 1 of  4  dif\N'45' ferent  field  groups  (see the \N'39'G\N'39' interactive command, repeated below). Each of the 4 field groups has a unique separately  configurable  summary area and its own configurable task area.         

In  alternate\N'45'display  mode,  those  4 underlying field groups can now be made visible simultaneously, or can be turned Off  individually  at  your command.         

The  summary  area will always exist, even if it\N'39's only the message line. At any given time only one  summary  area  can  be  displayed.   However, depending  on  your  commands,  there could be from zero to four separate task displays currently showing on the screen.         
       
.RE

.B Current Window:
.RS 4         
The \N'39'current\N'39' window is the window associated with the summary  area  and the  window to which task related commands are always directed.  Since in alternate\N'45'display mode you can toggle the task display Off, some commands might be restricted for the \N'39'current\N'39' window.         

A  further  complication  arises  when you have toggled the first summary area line Off.  With the loss of the window name (the \N'39'l\N'39' toggled  line), you\N'39'll not easily know what window is the \N'39'current\N'39' window.         
       
.RE     

.SS COMMANDS for Windows       
.br
.ns
.TP 6
\ \ \N'39'\fB\N'45'\fR\N'39' or \N'39'\fB_\fR\N'39': \fIShow/Hide Window(s) toggles\fR
The  \N'39'\N'45'\N'39'  key turns the \N'39'current\N'39' window\N'39's task display On and Off.  When On, that task area will show a  minimum  of  the  columns  header  you\N'39've established  with  the  \N'39'f\N'39'  and  \N'39'o\N'39' commands.  It will also reflect any other task area options/toggles you\N'39've  applied  yielding  zero  or  more tasks.         

The  \N'39'_\N'39'  key  does  the  same for all task displays.  In other words, it switches between the currently visible task display(s) and any task  dis\N'45' play(s)  you had toggled Off.  If all 4 task displays are currently visi\N'45' ble, this interactive command will leave the summary  area  as  the  only display element.         

.TP 6
* \N'39'\fB=\fR\N'39' and \N'39'\fB+\fR\N'39': \fIEqualize (re\N'45'balance) Window(s)\fR
The \N'39'=\N'39' key forces the \N'39'current\N'39' window\N'39's task display to be visible.  It also reverses any \N'39'i\N'39' (idle tasks) and  \N'39'n\N'39'  (max  tasks)  commands  that might be active.         

The  \N'39'+\N'39'  key does the same for all windows.  The four task displays will reappear, evenly balanced.  They will also have retained  any  customiza\N'45' tions you had previously applied, except for the \N'39'i\N'39' (idle tasks) and \N'39'n\N'39' (max tasks) commands.         

.TP 6
* \N'39'\fBA\fR\N'39': \fIAlternate Display Mode toggle\fR
This command will switch between full\N'45'screen mode  and  alternate\N'45'display mode.         

The  first  time  you  issue this command, all four task displays will be shown.  Thereafter when you switch modes, you will see only the task dis\N'45' play(s) you\N'39've chosen to make visible.         

.TP 6
* \N'39'\fBa\fR\N'39' and \N'39'\fBw\fR\N'39': \fINext Window Forward/Backward\fR
This  will  change the \N'39'current\N'39' window, which in turn changes the window to which commands are directed.  These keys act in a circular fashion  so you can reach any desired \N'39'current\N'39' window using either key.         

Assuming the window name is visible (you have not toggled \N'39'l\N'39' Off), when\N'45' ever the  \N'39'current\N'39'  window  name  loses  its  emphasis/color,  that\N'39's  a reminder the task display is Off and many commands will be restricted.         

.TP 6
* \N'39'\fBG\fR\N'39': \fIChoose Another Window/Field Group\fR
You  will  be  prompted to enter a number between 1 and 4 designating the window/field group which should be made the \N'39'current\N'39' window.         

In full\N'45'screen mode, this command is necessary  to  alter  the  \N'39'current\N'39' window.  In alternate\N'45'display mode, it is simply a less convenient alter\N'45' native to the \N'39'a\N'39' and \N'39'w\N'39' commands.         

.TP 6
\ \ \N'39'\fBg\fR\N'39': \fIChange Window/Field Group Name\fR
You will be prompted for a new name to be applied to the  \N'39'current\N'39'  win\N'45'       dow.  It does not require that the window name be visible (the \N'39'l\N'39' toggle       to be On).         

.PP       
The interactive commands shown with an asterisk (\N'39'*\N'39') have use beyond  alternate\N'45'display mode.       
.RS 6
.nf
\N'39'=\N'39', \N'39'A\N'39', \N'39'G\N'39'  are always available
\N'39'a\N'39', \N'39'w\N'39'       act the same when color mapping
.fi
.RE
        

.SH FILES     

.SS SYSTEM Configuration File       
The  presence  of this file will influence which version of the \N'39'help\N'39' screen is shown to an ordinary user.  More importantly, it will limit what ordinary  users are  allowed to do when top is running.  They will not be able to issue the fol\N'45' lowing commands.       
.RS 3
.nf
k         Kill a task
r         Renice a task
d or s    Change delay/sleep interval
.fi
.RE

The system configuration file is not created by top.  Rather,  you  create  this file  manually and place it in the /etc directory.  Its name must be \N'39'toprc\N'39' and must have no leading \N'39'.\N'39' (period).  It must have only two lines.       

Here is an example of the contents of /etc/toprc:       
.RS 3
.nf
s         # line 1: \N'39'secure\N'39' mode switch
5.0       # line 2: \N'39'delay\N'39'  interval in seconds
.fi
.RE
     

.SS PERSONAL Configuration File       
This file is written as \N'39'$HOME/.your\N'45'name\N'45'4\N'45'top\N'39' + \N'39'rc\N'39'.  Use the  \N'39'W\N'39'  interac\N'45' tive command to create it or update it.       

Here is the general layout:       
.RS 3
.nf
global    # line 1: the program name/alias notation
\  "       # line 2: id,altscr,irixps,delay,curwin
per ea    # line a: winname,fieldscur
window    # line b: winflags,sortindx,maxtasks
\  "       # line c: summclr,msgsclr,headclr,taskclr
.fi
.RE

If the $HOME variable is not present, top will try to write the personal config\N'45' uration file to the current directory, subject to permissions.       
        

.SH STUPID TRICKS SAMPLER     
Many of these \N'39'tricks\N'39' work best when you give top a scheduling boost.  So  plan on starting him with a nice value of \N'45'10, assuming you\N'39've got the authority.     


.SS Kernel Magic       
For these stupid tricks, top needs full\N'45'screen mode.       
         
.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
The  user  interface,  through prompts and help, intentionally implies that the delay interval is limited to tenths of a second.  However, you\N'39're  free to set any desired delay.  If you want to see Linux at his scheduling best, try a delay of .09 seconds or less.         

For this experiment, under x\N'45'windows open an xterm and maximize  it.   Then do the following:         

.RS  
.IP \fB·\fR 3
provide a scheduling boost and tiny delay via: 
.RS 4
.nf
nice \N'45'n \N'45'10 top \N'45'd.09
.fi
.RE 
.IP \fB·\fR 3
keep sorted column highlighting Off to minimize path length 
.IP \fB·\fR 3
turn On reverse row highlighting for emphasis 
.IP \fB·\fR 3
try various sort columns (TIME/MEM work well), and normal or reverse sorts to bring the most active processes into view
.PP         
.RE
.IP

What  you\N'39'll  see is a very busy Linux doing what he\N'39's always done for you, but there was no program available to illustrate this.         

.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
Under an xterm using \N'39'white\N'45'on\N'45'black\N'39' colors, try setting top\N'39's task  color to  black  and  be sure that task highlighting is set to bold, not reverse. Then set the delay interval to around .3 seconds.         

After bringing the most active processes into view, what you\N'39'll see are the ghostly images of just the currently running tasks.         

.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
Delete  the  existing rcfile, or create a new symlink.  Start this new ver\N'45' sion then type \N'39'T\N'39' (a secret key, see topic 3c. TASK Area  Commands,  Sort\N'45' ing)  followed by \N'39'W\N'39' and \N'39'q\N'39'.  Finally, restart the program with \N'45'd0 (zero delay).         

Your display will be refreshed at three times the rate of the former top, a 300%  speed advantage.  As top climbs the TIME ladder, be as patient as you can while speculating on whether or not top will ever reach the top.       

.PP     

.SS Bouncing Windows       
For these stupid tricks, top needs alternate\N'45'display mode.       
         
.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
With 3 or 4 task displays visible, pick any window other than the last  and turn  idle  processes  Off.   Depending on where you applied \N'39'i\N'39', sometimes several task displays are bouncing and sometimes it\N'39's like an accordion, as top tries his best to allocate space.         

.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
Set  each  window\N'39's  summary lines differently: one with no memory; another with no states; maybe one with nothing at all, just the message line.  Then hold down \N'39'a\N'39' or \N'39'w\N'39' and watch a variation on bouncing windows  \N'45'\N'45'  hopping windows.         

.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
Display all 4 windows and for each, in turn, set  idle  processes  to  Off. You\N'39've just entered the "extreme bounce" zone.         

.PP            

.SS The Big Bird Window       
This stupid trick also requires alternate\N'45'display mode.       
         
.IP \fB\N'45'\fR 3
Display  all  4  windows  and make sure that 1:Def is the \N'39'current\N'39' window. Then, keep increasing window size until the all the other task displays are "pushed out of the nest".         

When  they\N'39've all been displaced, toggle between all visible/invisible win\N'45' dows.  Then ponder this:         

.IP
is top fibbing or telling honestly your imposed truth?         

.PP       
.PP        

.SH BUGS
Send bug reports to:
.br
Albert D. Cahalan, <albert@users.sf.net>   


.SH HISTORY FORMER TOP     
The original top was  written  by  Roger  Binns,  based  on  Branko  Lankester\N'39's <lankeste@fwi.uva.nl> ps program.     

Robert  Nation <nation@rocket.sanders.lockheed.com> adapted it for the proc file system.     

Helmut Geyer <Helmut.Geyer@iwr.uni\N'45'heidelberg.de> added support for configurable fields.     

Plus many other individuals contributed over the years.     
   

.SH AUTHOR     
.br
.ns
.TP 3
This entirely new and enhanced replacement was written by:
Jim / James C. Warner, <warnerjc (at) worldnet.att.net>       

.TP 3
With invaluable help from:
Albert D. Cahalan, <albert (at) users.sf.net>
.br
Craig Small, <csmall (at) small.dropbear.id.au>       

.PP   

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBatop(1)\fR, \fBfree(1)\fR, \fBps(1)\fR, \fBslabtop(1)\fR, \fBuptime(1)\fR, \fBw(1)\fR, \fBvmstat(8)\fR.   
 
.\\" ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
.ig
.rj 1
\\\N'45'*\N'45'
.PD
.in \N'45'3
Copyright (c) 2002 \\*(EM JC Warner & Associates, Ltd.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Front\N'45'Cover Texts, no Back\N'45'Cover Texts, and with the following
Invariant Sections and any sub\N'45'sections therein:
.na
.hy 0
.in +3
STUPID\\ TRICKS\\ Sampler;
.br
AUTHOR
.in
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
\\(dqGNU Free Documentation License\\(dq.
..
.
.\\" end: active doc ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
.\\" ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||

.ig
.\\" ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
.SH GNU Free Documentation License
Version 1.1, March 2000

Copyright (C) 2000  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
\    59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111\N'45'1307  USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

.SS 0. PREAMBLE
The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
written document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone
the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without
modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.  Secondarily,
this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get
credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for
modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It
complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
software, because free software needs free documentation: a free
program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the
software does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals;
it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or
whether it is published as a printed book.  We recommend this License
principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

.SS 1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed
under the terms of this License.  The "Document", below, refers to any
such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a licensee, and is
addressed as "you".

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
modifications and/or translated into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front\N'45'matter section of
the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
publishers or authors of the Document to the Document\N'39's overall subject
(or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly
within that overall subject.  (For example, if the Document is in part a
textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any
mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of historical
connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding
them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles
are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice
that says that the Document is released under this License.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,
as Front\N'45'Cover Texts or Back\N'45'Cover Texts, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine\N'45'readable copy,
represented in a format whose specification is available to the
general public, whose contents can be viewed and edited directly and
straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of
pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available
drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or
for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input
to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage
subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent.  A copy that is
not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML
or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard\N'45'conforming simple
HTML designed for human modification.  Opaque formats include
PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that can be read and edited only
by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine\N'45'generated HTML produced by some word processors for output
purposes only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material
this License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in
formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means
the text near the most prominent appearance of the work\N'39's title,
preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

.SS 2. VERBATIM COPYING
You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies
to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other
conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use
technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further
copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough
number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
you may publicly display copies.

.SS 3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100,
and the Document\N'39's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose
the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover
Texts: Front\N'45'Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back\N'45'Cover Texts on
the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify
you as the publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present
the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
visible.  You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve
the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated
as verbatim copying in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
more than 100, you must either include a machine\N'45'readable Transparent
copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy
a publicly\N'45'accessible computer\N'45'network location containing a complete
Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material, which the
general network\N'45'using public has access to download anonymously at no
charge using public\N'45'standard network protocols.  If you use the latter
option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin
distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location
until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque
copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to
the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give
them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.

.SS 4. MODIFICATIONS
You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under
the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release
the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified
Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution
and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy
of it.  In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:

.HP 3
.B A\\fR.\\ Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct
from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should,
if there were any, be listed in the History section of the Document).
You may use the same title as a previous version if the original publisher of
that version gives permission.
.HP 3
.B B\\fR.\\ List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document
(all of its principal authors, if it has less than five).
.HP 3
.B C\\fR.\\ State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified
Version, as the publisher.
.HP 3
.B D\\fR.\\ Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
.HP 3
.B E\\fR.\\ Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent
to the other copyright notices.
.HP 3
.B F\\fR.\\ Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of
this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
.HP 3
.B G\\fR.\\ Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections
and required Cover Texts given in the Document\N'39's license notice.
.HP 3
.B H\\fR.\\ Include an unaltered copy of this License.
.HP 3
.B I\\fR.\\ Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to it
an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the
Modified Version as given on the Title Page.
If there is no section entitled "History" in the Document, create one stating
the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as given on its Title
Page, then add an item describing the Modified Version as stated in the
previous sentence.
.HP 3
.B J\\fR.\\ Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network
locations given in the Document for previous versions it was based on.
These may be placed in the "History" section.
You may omit a network location for a work that was published at least four
years before the Document itself, or if the original publisher of the version
it refers to gives permission.
.HP 3
.B K\\fR.\\ In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", preserve
the section\N'39's title, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of
each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
.HP 3
.B L\\fR.\\ Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their
text and in their titles.
Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
.HP 3
.B M\\fR.\\ Delete any section entitled "Endorsements".
Such a section may not be included in the Modified Version.
.HP 3
.B N\\fR.\\ Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements" or to conflict
in title with any Invariant Section.

.PP
If the Modified Version includes new front\N'45'matter sections or
appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the
list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version\N'39's license notice.
These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.

You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
parties\N'45'\N'45'for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front\N'45'Cover Text, and a
passage of up to 25 words as a Back\N'45'Cover Text, to the end of the list
of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of
Front\N'45'Cover Text and one of Back\N'45'Cover Text may be added by (or
through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already
includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
imply endorsement of any Modified Version.

.SS 5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
license notice.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.
Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History"
in the various original documents, forming one section entitled
"History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements",
and any sections entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections
entitled "Endorsements."

.SS 6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all
other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.

.SS 7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version
of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the
compilation.  Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this
License does not apply to the other self\N'45'contained works thus compiled
with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they
are not themselves derivative works of the Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter
of the entire aggregate, the Document\N'39's Cover Texts may be placed on
covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate.
Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.

.SS 8. TRANSLATION
Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.
Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
translation of this License provided that you also include the
original English version of this License.  In case of a disagreement
between the translation and the original English version of this
License, the original English version will prevail.

.SS 9. TERMINATION
You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except
as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to
copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However,
parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

.SS 10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions
of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.
If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version
number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

.SS ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and
license notices just after the title page:

.IP "" 3
Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the
terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation;\\ \\ with the Invariant Sections being
LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front\N'45'Cover Texts being LIST, and with the
Back\N'45'Cover Texts being LIST.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
Free Documentation License".

If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections"
instead of saying which ones are invariant.  If you have no
Front\N'45'Cover Texts, write "no Front\N'45'Cover Texts" instead of
"Front\N'45'Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back\N'45'Cover Texts.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
to permit their use in free software.

.\\" ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
.SH \\fRend of\\fB GNU Free Documentation License
.IP ""
.PP
..
.\\" end: gfdl license ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
.\\" ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
 
   
