.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:32+02:00  
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr 2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993 
.\" 
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or 
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as 
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of 
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version. 
.\" 
.\" The GNU General Public License\N'39's references to "object code" 
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any 
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including 
.\" intermediate and printed output. 
.\" 
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of 
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the 
.\" GNU General Public License for more details. 
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public 
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, 
.\" USA. 
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:06:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)   
.TH "group" 5 "29 Aralık 1992" "Linux" "Linux Yazılımcısının Kılavuzu"
.nh    
.SH İSİM
group \N'45' kullanıcı grup dosyası     
.SH AÇIKLAMA     
\fB/etc/group\fR  ASCII  karakter kodlamalı bir dosyadır. Kullanıcılara ait grupları tanımlar. Her satır için bir girdi vardır ve her satır şu şekildedir:     

.IP
grup_ismi:parola:grupnum:kullanıcı_listesi     

.PP
Alanların açıklamaları şöyledir:     



.br
.ns
.TP 
\fBgrup_ismi\fR
Grubun ismi.       

.TP 
\fBparola\fR
Şifreli grup parolası. Şayet bu alan boş ise, grup için parolaya ihtiyaç yok demektir.       

.TP 
\fBgrupnum\fR
Grup kimliği (GID).       

.TP 
\fBkullanıcı_listesi\fR
Bütün grup üyelerini ismi, virgül ile ayrılmış şekilde yer alır.       

.PP
   
.SH İLGİLİ DOSYALAR     
/etc/group
   
.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER     
\fBlogin(1)\fR, \fBnewgrp(1)\fR, \fBpasswd(5)\fR.     
   
.SH ÇEVİREN     
Yalçın Kolukısa <yalcink01 (at) yahoo.com>, Ocak 2004
    
   
