.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:39+02:00  
.\" Copyright 1991 \N'45' 1993, Julianne Frances Haugh 
.\" All rights reserved. 
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met: 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors 
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software 
.\" without specific prior written permission. 
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS \N'96'\N'96'AS IS\N'39'\N'39' AND 
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY 
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.   
.TH "groupdel" 8 "" "" ""
.nh    
.SH İSİM
groupdel \N'45' bir grubu siler    
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBgroupdel \fR\fIgrup\fR
.fi
    
.SH AÇIKLAMA     
\fBgroupdel\fR komutu, sistem hesap dosyalarını düzenler ve \fIgrup\fR olarak belirtilen gruba ait bütün girdileri siler. Silinmek istenen grup, sistemde varolmalıdır.     

Silme işleminden sonra, silinen grup numarasına ait herhangi bir dosya kalmadığından emin olmak için bütün dosya sistemlerini kontrol etmelisiniz.     
   
.SH YETERSİZLİKLER     
Varolan herhangi bir kullanıcının birincil grubunu silemeyebilirsiniz. Grubu silmeden önce bu kullanıcıyı sistemden kaldırmak zorundasınız.     
   
.SH İLGİLİ DOSYALAR     

.nf
\fB/etc/group\fR   \N'45' grupların hesap bilgileri
\fB/etc/gshadow\fR \N'45' güvenli grup bilgileri
.fi     
   
.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER     
\fBchfn(1)\fR, \fBchsh(1)\fR, \fBpasswd(1)\fR, \fBgroupadd(8)\fR, \fBgroupmod(8)\fR, \fBuseradd(8)\fR, \fBuserdel(8)\fR, \fBusermod(8)\fR.     
  
.SH YAZAN     
Julianne Frances Haugh <jockgrrl (at) ix.netcom.com> tarafından yazılmıştır.     
   
.SH ÇEVİREN     
Yalçın Kolukısa <yalcink01 (at) yahoo.com>, Ocak 2004
    
   
