.\" http://belgeler.org \N'45' 2006\N'45'11\N'45'26T10:18:40+02:00  
.\" Copyright 1991 \N'45' 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh 
.\" All rights reserved. 
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met: 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors 
.\" may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software 
.\" without specific prior written permission. 
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS \N'96'\N'96'AS IS\N'39'\N'39' AND 
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY 
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.   
.TH "userdel" 8 "" "" ""
.nh    
.SH İSİM
userdel \N'45' Bir kullanıcı hesabını ve onunla ilgili dosyaları siler    
.SH KULLANIM 
.nf
\fBuserdel\fR [ \fB\N'45'r\fR ] \fIkullanıcı\fR
.fi
       
.SH AÇIKLAMA     
\fBuserdel\fR, userdel komutu, \fIkullanıcı\fR ile belirtilen hesabı silerek, sistem hesap dosyalarını değiştirir. Silinmeye çalışan \fIkullanıcı\fR hesabı, sistemde var olan bir hesap olmalıdır. Var olmayan bir hesabı silemezsiniz.     




.br
.ns
.TP 
\fB\N'45'r\fR
Kullanıcının ev dizinindeki dosyalar, ev dizininin kendisi ve kullanıcının posta havuzu silinir. Diğer dosya sistemlerinde bulunan dosyalar silinmez. Bu nedenle bu dosyaları bulmak ve onları silmek sistem yöneticisinin görevidir.         

.PP     
   
.SH İLGİLİ DOSYALAR     

.nf
/etc/passwd \N'45' kullanıcı hesap bilgileri
/etc/shadow \N'45' güvenli kullanıcı hesap bilgileri
/etc/group  \N'45' grup bilgileri
.fi     
   
.SH YETERSİZLİKLER     
Kullanıcı sisteme bağlı ise, \fBuserdel\fR komutu ile bu hesabı kaldıramazsınız.  Silmeye çalıştığınız hesaba ait çalışan bütün süreçleri öldürmek zorundasınız. Bir NIS istemcisindeki NIS özniteliklerini kaldıramayabilirsiniz. Bu işlem, NIS sunucu üzerinde gerçekleştirilmelidir.     
   
.SH İLGİLİ BELGELER     
\fBchfn(1)\fR, \fBchsh(1)\fR, \fBpasswd(1)\fR, \fBgroupadd(8)\fR, \fBgroupdel(8)\fR, \fBgroupmod(8)\fR, \fBuseradd(8)\fR, \fBusermod(8)\fR.     
  
.SH YAZAN     
Julianne Frances Haugh <jockgrrl (at) ix.netcom.com> tarafından  yazılmıştır.     
   
.SH ÇEVİREN     
Yalçın Kolukısa <yalcink01 (at) yahoo.com>, Aralık 2003
    
   
